
























   Registered: 1311988

                               VOICE ON PHONE

   Sir, your car is ready for you.

                            CLAY HAMMOND'S VOICE

   Thank you.          I'll be right down.

   The sound of the phone being hung up as we... FADE IN

   1         CU: A CLOSET DOOR.      1


   We see the form of a man finishing dressing in his bedroom, but we do
   not see his face.                 His hands adjusts a beautiful Marc
   Jacobs, silk tie.                   He puts on his suit jacket and we
   can see he is impeccably dressed.


   He picks up the cigarette burning in the ashtray, and lifts it out of
   frame to take one last puff before stubbing it out.


   From the tray on the night table he picks up his wallet, a small
   notebook and Mont Blanc pen placing it into his breast jacket pocket.


   Finally, he picks up a hard bound book with no cover jacket. On the
   spine is the

TITLE: THE WORDS

   He places it into a small leather bag.


   Finally, he steps before the closet door and stares into the
   mirror.         For the first time we see the man's face: This is CLAY
   HAMMOND (early 50's,) handsome with an intense gaze.         He stares
   at himself in the mirror, one last breath.  We hear the sounds of
   RISING APPLAUSE, and he closes the door...

                                                              JUMP CUT TO:

   2         INT. AUDITORIUM. NIGHT.                        2


   We see a PACKED AUDITORIUM applauding.              Standing before
   them, from behind a lectern, Clay Hammond stares out nodding his
   appreciation.


   Standing in front of the audience Clay's presence is composed,
   confident and quietly commanding; he is the picture of the successful,
   respected, cosmopolitan author of acclaimed, literary fiction.


   Clay waits for the applause to quiet.               He takes a sip of
   water and leans into the microphone.

                                    CLAY

   "The Words," by...me.

   The crowd laughs.

   2        CONTINUED:              2



                                CLAY(CONT'D)

   Part One.          'The Old Man.'

   Clay takes another sip of water and begins reading.

                                CLAY(CONT'D)

                      The Old Man stood in the rain...



   3        EXT. NEW YORK CITY - RORY'S HOTEL. TWILIGHT.

   It is pouring rain at rush hour in Manhattan.                   People








   CUT TO:

                                                                         3


   shielding themselves with umbrellas and newspapers running this way and
   that to get out of the rain.


   In the midst of the chaos we push in on an old man who looks to be
   about seventy years old.                   He is leaning against the
   outside wall of this extravagant hotel.


   Wearing a long tattered rain coat and a rain cap, we can see his face
   is worn, yet the eyes are still filled with a fire; you could map out a
   life lived on the deep lines of this face.


   Like the eye of a storm, THE OLD MAN seems indifferent to the rain and
   the people rushing to get out of it. Cabs and limos pull up to the
   hotel as the valets rush people in and out.


   Suddenly, emerging from the front doors of the hotel is a younger man,
   RORY JANSEN (early 30's,) who seems to stand out from the
   rest.              Somehow, it appears that the rain misses him.


   Rory's face is youthful, vigorous, and vibrant; he is dressed elegantly
   in a tuxedo and top coat, and on his arm is a beautiful and
   sophisticated woman, DORA JANSEN, (early 30's,) wearing a black Yves
   Saint Laurent dress and a beautiful red shawl.


   As Rory passes The Old Man steps away from the wall and studies Rory
   and Dora closely.                   He follows the couple a few steps
   behind watching as Rory tips a valet and steps into a waiting limo with
   Dora.                  The limo pulls away leaving The Old Man standing
   there.


   The Old Man pulls the collar of his jacket tight around his neck and
   turns to the valet. In a raspy voice, The Old Man asks the valet:


                                 THE OLD MAN

   Excuse me.        Excuse me.

                                    VALET

   Yeah?

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Do you know who that was?

   3        CONTINUED:              3


   The valet looks the man over.

                                    VALET

   I'm sorry, I'm not permitted to give out information about our guests.

   The Old Man grabs the valet by the arm.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Just tell me, was that Rory Jansen?

                                    VALET

   I believe so.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   The writer?

                                    VALET

   I think so.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   I knew that was him.

                                    VALET

   You win the gold star.


   The Old Man walks off into the rain, disappearing into the crowd.

   TITLE CARD: `THE OLD MAN'





   4        EXT./INT. RORY'S LIMO. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                         4



   We follow Rory's limo as it glides through traffic.
   Rory is now on his cell phone while Dora sits next to him sipping a
   drink.


                                    RORY

   Pop...yeah...it's a very nice limo. (BEAT) Black, Pop. The interior is
   black.

   Rory makes a 'help me' face.                     Dora giggles.

                                RORY(CONT'D)

   Pop, listen to me, don't worry about it, I understand.         Tell Mom
   I hope she feels better.         I wish you could be here too. (BEAT)
   Yeah, I'm sure they'll take lots of pictures.

   He looks at Dora and rolls his eyes.                      She laughs.

                                RORY (CONT'D)

   Okay.       Okay. I'll be sure and tell her. I love you too, Dad.

   4        CONTINUED:              4


                Rory closes the phone and looks over at Dora.

                                RORY (CONT'D)

   My father's very proud of me, and he... loves you very much.

                                    DORA

   He's excited, huh?

                                    RORY

                          More then I am, I think.

                                    DORA

   Spoiled already.


   Rory reaches towards the bar and begins to mix himself a drink.


                                    RORY

   No, I'm very excited. A big honor, right?

   He takes a long sip, then stares out the window.

                                DORA (CONT'D)

   Rory...where are you?

                                    RORY

   I'm sorry. I'm just a little overwhelmed. I never expected any of this.


                                    DORA

   You're just nervous.

   He gulps the drink.



   RORY JANSEN

   It was this little book.



   5        EXT. WALDORF ASTORIA HOTEL. NIGHT.



   CUT TO:

                                                                         5



   The limo pulls to the front and the doorman opens the door. A few
   photographers snap photos as Rory and Dora step out of the limo and
   make their way inside.                 Rory and Dora are immediately
   swarmed by a crowd at the head of which is a short, bald man dressed
   daintily in a three piece suit.

   NELSON WYLIE, has the appearance of a true dandy, a cross between Tom
   Wolfe and Truman Capote.                 He is constantly followed by
   two assistants, all effeminate looking boys in their early twenties,
   who wait on his every word.

                                   NELSON

   Mr. Jansen? Mr. Rory Jansen? It's a pleasure to finally meet you.
   Nelson Wylie, as you may have heard.

   5    CONTINUED:              5


   Wylie extends his hand.

                                    RORY

   The pleasure is all mine, Mr. Wylie, I'm a great admirer of your work.

                                   NELSON

   Oh please, call me Nelson.        You're right on time.          So
   nice to not have to deal with a prima donna for a change.


   His assistants all laugh while Wylie shakes Rory's
   hand.                    We follow them as they pass through the lobby.
   Many of the guests are dressed in tuxedos or dark suits and dresses.

   They stare at Jansen and Wylie as they pass.

                               NELSON (CONT'D)

   ... We truly are honored and privileged to have you with us this
   evening. Glad you could make time for our little award, we know how
   busy you must be.

                                    RORY

   Thank you.       Really, the honor's all mine. I...


                                   NELSON

   Oh come now.          Your book is fabulous.           But you know
   that already.        Right?        You've read the reviews!

   The assistants laugh again, on cue.

                               NELSON (CONT'D)

   Honestly, it's refreshing to see a first work of such raw emotional
   power from one so...

   He looks Rory over for a moment.

                               NELSON (CONT'D)

   ...young.

                                    RORY

   Thank you, but you know it's just...

                                   NELSON

   No, no, don't be too modest.      In this world of mediocrity genius
   needs to be celebrated.      I celebrate my own every day.      (To
   Dora) And who do we have here?

                                    DORA

   Dora Jansen, such an honor to meet you.

   Nelson takes her hand and nods at Rory.

   5         CONTINUED: (2)          5


                                   NELSON

   And I am very pleased to meet you.

   He kisses her hand.


                               NELSON (cont'd)

   (To Rory) This must be your Celia, no?

   Dora blushes.


                                    DORA

   I've read all your books, Mr. Wylie. You are so...


                                   NELSON

   No, no, let's not talk about my work, not tonight.          I've had my
   accolades, countless accolades.       Tonight is about this young find
   here.          Tonight is about celebrating the future, while I am
   merely the past.


   They step into an elevator, and Wylie continues his monologue as the
   doors close...





   6         INT. COFFEE SHOP. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                         6



   The Old Man sits at the counter of a very cheap Times Square
   diner.        "Wheel of Fortune," plays on the TV.


   He looks around and lifts his coffee to his lips.                  Just
   as he does...




   (O.S.) No!

   MAN



   The Old Man turns and we see a man squabbling with a woman at a table
   by the door.             He bangs his fist on the table.

                                     MAN

   No.

                                    WOMAN

   You act like it means the whole world.

                                     MAN

   Well, it meant something to me! It might not have been important to
   you, but it was to me.


   The woman, suddenly crying, grabs her coat and storms out leaving the
   man sitting there, his head in his hands.

   For a moment The Old Man watches him.


                                                                   CUT TO:



   7         INT. WALDORF ASTORIA BALLROOM. EVENING.      7


   Nelson Wylie stands at the front of an elegantly decorated and lit
   ballroom filled with New York's intellectual elite.

                                   NELSON

   ...'The Window Songs' has introduced us to one of the most exciting and
   sensitive young writers to appear on the literary horizon in a very
   long time. We are privileged to have with us this evening, the winner
   of this year's American Fellowship of Arts and Letters, Mr. Rory
   Jansen.


   The crowd applauds as Rory rises, kisses Dora, and steps forward
   shaking Wylie's hand.                  A few cameras
   flash.              Wylie whispers in his ear as they hug.


   Rory steps to the podium.                 The crowd quiets in
   anticipation as he prepares to speak...





   8         INT. COFFEE SHOP. NIGHT.

   CUT BACK TO:

                                                                         8



   We see The Old Man laying a few dollars on the
   table.                    He puts his hat on, buttons his
   coat.                    He stare up at the TV where the waitress is
   trying to solve the just started "Wheel of Fortune" puzzle.


                                 THE OLD MAN

   "A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."


   The waitress turns and looks at him. He shrugs and makes his way to the
   door.                  Just before he steps out he looks back at the
   woman.


                                 THE OLD MAN

   Excuse me...


   She stares up at him, tears and mascara staining her eyes and cheeks.




                                                                     What?

   WOMAN


   THE OLD MAN


   You'll get through it.

   She stares at him for a moment longer.

                                    WOMAN

   Fuck off.

   8        CONTINUED:              8

   He shrugs and steps outside.                   An ambulance speeds by,
   lights flashing.




   9        INT. BALLROOM. EVENING.

   Rory speaks to the crowd from a hand written speech.

                                    RORY

   ...I simply tried to set down the truth as I imagined it, the story of
   one man, his wife and his child.             I never expected a small
   book like this to affect so many different people.        (BEAT) I only
   wish I had an idea for my next book...

   The crowd laughs.

                                RORY (CONT'D)

   But I am thinking of titling it, 'Sophomore Slump.'

   The crowd laughs harder.

                                RORY(CONT'D)

   Anyway, before I take up any more of your time this evening, let me
   finish here by saying the honor tonight is all mine.

   From the bottom of my heart I thank you.

   The crowd breaks into applause as Rory looks on.



   10      INT. BALLROOM. LATER.

   CUT TO:

                                                                         9























   CUT TO:

                                                                        10



   A group of photographers surround Rory who poses with his award, with
   Wylie, and with Dora.                 The flashes snap, and while Rory
   appears awkward and a bit uncomfortable with all the attention, Wylie
   is a seasoned vet able to slip in and out of the "pose" for the cameras
   seamlessly...





   11      EXT./INT. THE OLD MAN'S RUN DOWN HOTEL ROOM. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        11



   The door opens and The Old Man enters a tobacco stained room. The
   curtains match the bed spread in a dreary blue, and on the wall hangs a
   paint by numbers picture of a boat on stormy seas.


   The Old Man takes off his jacket and hat.                    He walks
   into the bathroom and washes his hands and face, staring at himself in
   the mirror long and hard.                    He coughs lightly, and we
   see prescription medicine bottles scattered about the sink.

                                                                        9.

   11      CONTINUED:             11


   He takes a few pills, drinks a glass of water, smooths back what's left
   of his hair, and walks out of the bathroom.                  He opens
   his suitcase and takes out a copy of the book, 'The Window Songs.'


   He turns the book over and studies the author's picture of a very
   serious and intellectual looking Rory Jansen.                  The Old
   Man opens the book and flips through it.

   We push in on The Old Man's face.





   12      INT. TRAIN STATION - FRANCE - 1946. DAY.

   DISSOLVE TO:

                                                                        12



   It is 1947, post war Paris, and we see a YOUNG MAN frantically
   searching the station platform.    He bumps into pedestrians who curse
   at him.            Ignoring them, The Young Man knocks over satchels,
   valises, and suitcases continuing to search frantically.  He grabs a
   CONDUCTOR and we see the Young Man yelling at him, trying to
   explain.             The Young Man pushes past him and continues
   searching all of the bags desperately.  As the train pulls out of the
   station we...

                                                                   CUT TO:


   13      INT. WALDORF LOBBY. NIGHT.                 13


   Rory and Dora stand by the doors with Nelson Wylie and his assistants
   in tow.             Rory signs a few offered books and accepts
   congratulations.

                                   NELSON

   Rory, let me just say that you are as charming, intelligent, and
   lovable as your work.


                                    RORY

   Thank you.           And you, Mr. Wylie, are as witty, cynical, and
   flamboyant as yours.

                                   NELSON

   (Wylie laughs) We must get together sometime.


                                    RORY

   I'd like that very much.

                                   NELSON

   Next week, perhaps?

                                    DORA

   Maybe the week after. Next week we're in The Hamptons.

                                   NELSON

   What is it about the Hamptons? Everyone goes to the Hamptons.

                                   (MORE)


   13      CONTINUED:


   NELSON  (cont'd)

   Why don't you try Trenton or Newark, at least that would be original.

   10.

   13



   He looks at Dora.

                                   NELSON

   Dora, it was delightful.

   He kisses her hand again.

                               NELSON (CONT'D)

   Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm off to find some young boys at the bar.
   (To his assistants) Come along puppies!

   Nelson goes back into the hotel followed by his assistants.

                                    DORA

   What a character.

                                    RORY

   I've about had it with literary genius for one night.

   He pulls her close, and the two slide into the limo.

   14      INT. RORY'S LIMO. LATER.                       14


   The limo drives.  She's got her leg thrown over his hip, running her
   fingers through his hair.

                                    DORA

   I told you that you would be fine.          They loved you.
   They...

                                    RORY

   Okay.  It's over.  Enough.

   Rory looks away.  Dora stares at him.

                                    DORA

   What?

                                 RORY JANSEN


   Can we just talk about something else? Can we do that?             I
   don't know, anything...you.         Let's talk about you.

   Dora glares at him.



   15      INT. AUDITORIUM. NIGHT - PRESENT.





   CUT BACK TO:

                                                                        15



   Clay Hammond continues to read from his book as we see in the
   background the two main doors to the auditorium quietly open...

   15      CONTINUED:             15


                                    CLAY

   It was a crisp and clear Autumn morning...


   DANIELLA, (20,) intellectual and very sexy, faced flush from the cold,
   dressed fashionably in black, quietly enters the auditorium.


   She stands for a moment as she focuses on the author reading. We push
   in on her face for a BEAT as she watches him, transfixed.


   Then, coming out of the trance, she quietly takes a seat in the back
   row, her eyes still completely focused on Clay, as he reads.



                                    CLAY

   The Old Man was dressed exactly as the day before...



   16      EXT. RORY JANSEN'S HOTEL. MORNING.



   CUT TO:

                                                                        16



   The Old Man stands in the same spot as the night before outside the
   hotel, wearing the same clothes.


   The Old Man pages through a New York Times.   He comes to the 'Arts and
   Leisure' section, and in the middle of the page is a photo of Rory
   Jansen, Dora, and Nelson Wylie from the night before.         Below the
   picture is the caption:


"First Time Novelist Awarded American Fellowship of Arts and Letters"


   Just then Rory Jansen steps out the front doors, nods hello to one of
   the valets.

                                    VALET

   Can I hail you a cab this morning, Mr. Jansen?


                                    RORY

   No, I think I'm just gonna take a walk, like the old days.


   Rory begins to walk down the avenue with a book tucked under his arm.
   The Old Man begins to trail Rory about a half block behind him.  Rory
   walks down the stairs to the subway station as The Old Man follows him
   down, huffing and puffing.





   17      INT. SUBWAY. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        17



   Rory is seated near the door.                   The Old Man stands
   across from him, studying him.


                                                               (CONTINUED)

   17      CONTINUED:             17

   The Old Man suddenly breaks out into a coughing fit and no one seems to
   notice, except Rory, who looks up at him.                 Their eyes
   meet for a moment, then Rory looks back down at his book.

   An attractive middle aged woman seated next to Rory is reading The
   Times.

   18      CU: PHOTO OF RORY, DORA, AND NELSON WYLIE.      18


   She looks up from the paper and stares at Rory, then back down at the
   photo, The Old Man watching everything.

   She catches his eyes, and smiles.

                                    WOMAN

   I'm sorry... I, don't mean to be rude. I just wanted to tell you, I
   loved your book.



                                    RORY

   Thank you...very much.

   She leans in very close.

                                    WOMAN

   I don't know if anyone's ever told you this, and I can't believe I'm
   going to say it, but...(whispering) I've never ever seen a woman's
   orgasm described as...perfectly as you did in your book. I mean the way
   you...that's the way it feels, (she laughs) at least for me...

   She looks at him, without blinking.

                                    RORY

   Well, wow.       Thank you...again...very, very much.

   She laughs again, just a bit too loud.



   19      EXT. STREET OUTSIDE CENTRAL PARK. DAY.


















   CUT TO:

                                                                        19



   Rory enters the park.                  A moment later The Old Man comes
   up behind grabbing the rail, huffing and puffing.               He
   continues to follow Rory into the park.





   20      EXT. CENTRAL PARK BENCH. LATER.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        20



   Rory sits reading, as people pass.                 The Old Man leans
   against a tree, watching him.                After a moment, he crosses
   and sits down on the far end of the bench.


   The Old Man pulls out a half a sandwich out and begins feeding the
   pigeons the bread who quickly gather around.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Hello, birdies. How are you today? A little bit of food for you? There
   you go. Tired of digging around in trash cans, huh? Well, we're all
   scavengers here.


   The Old Man continues to talk to the pigeons as Rory looks up from his
   book, slightly annoyed, but slightly amused.

   THE OLD MAN (cont'd)

   What are you guys doing in this God forsaken city, huh?        You got
   wings.       What are you stupid or something?        You could fly
   anywhere you want to go.       Why don't you go north, go south, go
   anywhere but here?       At least go to the beach for God's
   sakes.        Coney Island's just that way.        I haven't been in
   New York City since 1961. I hate this town.       I hate everything
   about it.       There you go, boys.           Eat up.

   Eat up.

   The Old Man looks over at Rory.

   THE OLD MAN (cont'd)

   How you doing today?

                                    RORY

   I'm okay.  And you?

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Comme çi, comme ça.          Know what I mean?

   Rory nods, goes back to his book.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   What are you reading?

   He shows the book to The Old Man.

                                    RORY

   'Ask The Dust.'          John Fante?

   The Old Man nods his head in recognition.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   The "Old Bull Dog."            An unknown.

                                    RORY

   You've read Fante?

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Read him? I knew him.





















   21      BEAT.

   RORY

   You knew John Fante?

   THE OLD MAN

   Bandinni himself.           I met him in Los Angeles...that must have
   been 1958.

   RORY

   What were you doing in Los Angeles?

   THE OLD MAN

   Whatever I could, like everybody else. Fante and me, we played cards,
   we went to the racetrack together. He was a terrible gambler.
   Fantastic writer, though.    Should have been one of the greats.
   Should have been somebody everybody knew.

   RORY

   So, why wasn't he?

                                                                        21

   THE OLD MAN


   Fate.


   The Old Man slowly takes out the newspaper and opens it to the page
   with Rory's picture.

   THE OLD MAN (cont'd)

   So tell me something, how does it feel?

   Rory looks up.


                                    RORY

   How does what feel?

                                 THE OLD MAN

   To not be...an unknown.

   The Old Man holds up the picture of Rory in the paper.

   THE OLD MAN (CONT'D)

   You're famous now. So tell me, because I'd like to know, how that
   feels?

                                    RORY

   Well...I haven't really given it much...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Oh come on!         Don't bullshit an old bullshitter.             You
   know how it feels.             It feels good.          It's okay to
   admit it.          It's what you worked for, right?

                                   (MORE)

   THE OLD MAN (cont'd)

   It's what you dreamed about when you were slaving away putting those
   words down, hoping somebody, anybody, would understand them, understand
   you.

                                    RORY

   Yeah, I mean, I guess...it feels good to have your work recognized...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Ehhhhh, sure! You probably get good tables at restaurants now. People,
   people you don't even know look at you with respect, admiration,
   wondering why you were chosen when so many are called.

                                    RORY

   I just worked.             I just...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Fate was kind to you.      The Gods smiled on you.      And when you
   were born they said that one, that one is a writer and his words will
   be celebrated.

   Rory shifts nervously in his seat.

                                    RORY

   I think that may be a little grandiose...I don't exactly know about the
   gods and all that.         I...I mean...I just wrote a book and people
   happened to like it.          I mean, who knows how anything
   happens?          I mean, I wrote two others that nobody would publish
   before this one.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   But I'll bet they'll publish them now.

   Rory shrugs as if to end the conversation.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   I read your book. I liked it very, very much.


                                    RORY

   Well, thank you.             I appreciate that.

             Rory acts like he's trying to get back to his book.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Tell me something, would you?

                                    RORY

   What?

                                 THE OLD MAN

   How do you write?


                                    RORY

   How do I write?

                                 THE OLD MAN

   I mean, what's your process?

                                    RORY

   My process?

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Your process.

                                    RORY

   My process is...I sit down and I write.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   (Laughing and then coughing)        That's not what I mean.
   Maybe I'm being a little vague.       Indulge a fan for a moment.

   There is nothing so mysterious as the writer of words.           You
   wrote about Paris right after the war, and as I was reading your novel,
   I was there with your characters.             I tasted the sweetness of
   the wine. I made love with the girl.            I smelt the coffee, and
   felt the steam of it on my cheeks.            I sat at that cafe in the
   morning wondering what the future held for me, or if it held anything
   for me at all.            I listened to the child cry in the middle of
   the night.            I felt the longing for home so far
   away.            That is how much you captured it for the reader, for
   me, at least.             (BEAT) You are some kind of writer, my
   friend.

   Rory looks at him.


                                 THE OLD MAN

   But you, you're what, a kid? You weren't even a thought when this story
   takes place.


                                    RORY

   Well, I did a lot of research. I spent some time in Paris. I read first
   person accounts of...I imagined...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Oh, but this wasn't imagination, this wasn't research, this was
   real.         This was talent.         See, I know because I was in
   Paris after the war, son.         I walked the streets your characters
   walked, and I can tell you, it was just like you wrote.

   Rory looks at him and starts to stand.

   You're very flattering, sir. Thank you. I really have to go now. My
   wife...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Sit down.       Hey, sit down. (He grabs his arm)      I know an artist
   gets uncomfortable when it comes to talking about his own work.
   And I'll stop, but would you do me a favor?      Would you autograph a
   copy of your book?       It would be an honor.


   The Old Man pulls the book out of his jacket pocket and offers Rory a
   pen.              Rory looks at him incredulously.      He takes the
   book and tentatively signs the inside cover.

                                    RORY

   It was a pleasure talking to you...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   I was an artist once.

                                    RORY

   Sir, I really, I have to...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Yeah, actually I was a writer myself. Didn't work out so good, though.

                                    RORY



   22      BEAT.

   Why not?

                                                                        22

   THE OLD MAN


   Fate. I have a story, though. A good story. I'm sure you get that line
   all the time now, huh?

                                    RORY

   I'd love to hear it, but right now...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   You'll like this story. I always wanted to write it, but now I'm too
   old. (He holds up a battered hand) Arthritis.

   Maybe I tell it to you and you could use it sometime?           And if
   you use my story, you could maybe give me a little credit.

                                    RORY

   Sir, have a nice day.


   Rory begins to walk away.                The Old Man stands up and
   calls after him.

   It's about a man who once wrote a book of stories but then lost it, and
   the piss ant kid who found it.


   The Old Man begins to cough and sits down on the
   bench.                  Rory turns around staring at The Old Man.

   THE OLD MAN (CONT'D)

   I see you're still here. (He coughs) I thought maybe you'd be
   interested in my little story.

   Rory turns around.


                                 THE OLD MAN

   You want to hear it, or don't you have time?


                                    RORY

   I'm listening...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   I'll bet you are.

   The Old Man clears his throat.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Okay.       It's 1944 and here I am a kid dressed as a soldier in the
   army.       I never saw any action, I got sent to Paris right at the
   end of the war.       We were gonna 'clean up the mess.'       So
   here's me...





   23      EXT. LATIN QUARTER - PARIS. DAY.

   DISSOLVE TO:

                                                                        23



   The Old Man, now only twenty years old, is walking down a cobble stone
   street in the Latin Quarter of Paris with two other
   soldiers.                His packed duffle bag slung over his shoulder,
   he is dressed in an army uniform: buck Private. THE YOUNG MAN is the
   picture of a life ready to be lived.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   ... A dumb kid from Philadelphia, with a dumb-ass grin on his face, who
   ain't never seen nothing but Morris Street.

   Here I am in Paris, the other side of the God damn world.

   As he speaks we see shots from around Paris.

   -Sacre Coeur Church

   -Notre Dame

   -The Eiffel Tower

   -The Luxembourg Gardens...etc.

   Paris.  I must have walked that city a thousand times just breathing it
   in.

   Don't get me wrong, I wasn't just grab- assing around over
   there.         There was a hell of a lot of work to do.



   24      INT. SEWAGE TUNNEL. NIGHT.





   CUT TO:

                                                                        24



   A line of sweaty soldiers stand with shovels, picks, and hammers, as
   pipe is being laid along the sewers.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   I was repairing and laying sewage pipes 'cause most of em' had been
   blown apart by the Germans during the war. It was God awful work, but I
   was happy, like a pig in shit.

                                 SOLDIER #1

   So Vukovitch says to her, either take a bath first or we're not paying
   nothing.

                                 SOLDIER #2

   These French broads, I can't figure em' out.      If they ain't
   tempting you, they're repelling you.

                                 SOLDIER #3

   Man, it smells terrible down here!

                                 SOLDIER #2

   Whole city smells! The people smell, the food smells, the streets
   smell! I miss Utah.

   Soldier #3 suddenly wretches, bends over, and vomits.

                                 SOLDIER #1

   You got that Jewish stomach, ahh Barry!


   Some of the other soldiers laugh, while others hold their noses.
   In the midst of it all stands The Young Man.    He is working and
   smiling.



   THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   Literally, I was working in shit and I loved it.



   25      EXT. COUNTRYSIDE. DAWN.



   CUT TO:

                                                                        25



   The American platoon digs through smoldering rubble, we see their
   boyish, innocent faces from all over the country.

   The guys in my unit, most of them were different from anybody in my
   neighborhood, they were from all over, but over there we all stuck
   together.


   We push in on The Young Man who is picking up boards and bricks at the
   center of the destruction, and throws them into a wheelbarrow.


   The Young Man lifts a large board and suddenly, something catches his
   eye. He stares down and we see beneath the board are two feet, one in a
   brown shoe, the other foot bare, bruised badly.  The young Man lifts
   another board and we see the body of a boy about the same age as The
   Young Man.  Next to the dead boy's head is a dog, bleeding profusely
   from his side, but still struggling for breath.         The dog stares
   up at the Young Man.




                                                                    Sarge!

   YOUNG MAN



   The sergeant and a few other soldiers come over and stare down at the
   body.


   The sergeant takes out his revolver, aims it at the dog, and fires.


                              THE OLD MAN V.O.

   That was the only time I saw a dead body my whole time in the army.

   We push in on The Young Man's face.

   26      EXT. FIELD. DAY.       26

   The entire unit is taking a break in the fields, eating, drinking,
   carousing.            The Young Man sits playing cards with DAVE.


   THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   There was this guy in my unit, we were real different, he was a real
   bookworm, an intellectual, but he was my best friend, probably because
   we were so different.  He gave me some books to read about Paris,
   probably the first books I ever read about anything...



   27      EXT. CAFE. TWILIGHT.








   CUT TO:

                                                                        27



   The Young Man sits in a cafe reading "The Sun Also Rises." He closes it
   and looks up as we push in on his face.

   I don't know if it was the things I had seen, or the romance of Paris,
   or simply just growing up, but for the first time I could see a world
   that was bigger than the one I had known and I wanted more. I wanted to
   be something, more...more then I ever was, maybe more then I ever
   deserved to be.





   28      EXT. CENTRAL PARK BENCH. DAY.

                                                                      RORY

   CUT BACK TO:

                                                                        28


   A writer?

                                 THE OLD MAN


   You bet your ass, kid.           But I had no idea what that really
   meant...



   29      EXT. CAFE. NIGHT.


   CUT TO:

                                                                        29



   The Young Man and Dave sit at the same cafe sipping wine and taking in
   the bohemian scene.


   A young and beautiful waitress comes over to the
   table.                  She has short, black hair and quickly gathers
   empty coffee cups and piles them on her tray.            Suddenly, The
   Young Man and the woman's eyes meet and they stare at each other for a
   moment. She finally blinks and mumbles something in French to The Young
   Man, and then walks away.

                                  YOUNG MAN

   What'd she say?

   Dave thinks.


                                 DAVE FARBER

   I'll tell you, my French is a little weak, but I think she said (BEAT)
   she loves you?


   The Young Man stares at her with wide eyed amazement as she works.





   30      EXT. CAFE. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        30



   The Young Man sits with the waitress, CELIA.    A bottle of wine on the
   table.          The two hold hands across the table staring at each
   other, looking very much in love.

   I found out sometime later what she had actually said was, 'Pay your
   check and get the hell out of here' but who was I to question fate.

   The Young Man pours her some wine.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   I knew one whole word of French.

   The Young Man looks at her and whispers:

                                  YOUNG MAN

   Oui.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   And she knew one word of English:

   She looks at him and whispers:

                                    CELIA

   Yes.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   It was a perfect relationship.

   31      EXT. PARIS PARK. DAY.  31

   Celia and The Young Man are laying on the grass eating ice cream.
   Suddenly, Celia grabs her forehead, dropping the cone.

                                    CELIA

   Oooh!  Oooh!

                                  YOUNG MAN

   What's wrong?

                                    CELIA

                         Iz cold in my head!  Pain!

                                  YOUNG MAN

   Ice cream headache.

                                    CELIA

   Ed-ache?  I ate dis!


   She takes the ice cream and throws it at a tree. The Young Man
   indicates for her to take her pinky finger and stick it under her
   tongue.


                                  YOUNG MAN

                        Old trick.  Makes it go away.


   Celia does so.              She suddenly pulls her finger out of her
   mouth.

   It doesn't work! (Grabbing her head) I don't know what to do! I don't
   know...

   She looks around, suddenly relieved of her headache.

                               CELIA (cont'd)



   He shrugs.

   Iz gone!



   CELIA



   He laughs.

   I ate when zat 'appens.



   CELIA

   I want more.  More!



   They start fighting for the cone, making a mess, rolling around in the
   grass.





   32      EXT. CENTRAL PARK BENCH.                     DAY. The two sit
   talking.

   CUT BACK TO:

                                                                        32


                                    RORY

   So what happened?

                                 THE OLD MAN

   I got discharged from the army...

   33      EXT. PARIS TRAIN STATION. NIGHT.        33

   The train station is packed with American G.I's leaving for home.  The
   Young Man and Celia stare into each other's eyes. He kisses her on the
   forehead, looks at her once more, and

   enters the train.  He watches her through the window standing on the
   platform as the train slowly pulls out.


   34      EXT. PHILADELPHIA CITY STREET. TWILIGHT.

   35      MONTAGE sequence.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        34

                                                                        35



   The Young Man walks the streets in Philadelphia on a warm summer
   night.         He is dressed as a civilian.


   In the background we hear a baseball game being announced over the
   radio, The Phillies vs. The Brooklyn Dodgers.                    As we
   hear the announcers' voices we see...

   35      CONTINUED:             35

   -He sees an old man pulling a trash can up the steps.

   -He sees some young men fist fighting in the streets outside a bar.


   THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   I went back home to Philadelphia, but what once was my whole world
   suddenly seemed...small.             I hate to say it, and it made me
   feel sick to my gut, but everybody seemed...Nothing had changed since I
   had gone away, y'know...



   36      INT. BUTCHER SHOP. DAY.







   CUT TO:

                                                                        36



   The Young Man stands with a cleaver cutting a large slab of meat into
   steaks.                 His apron is stained with blood and he sweats
   beneath the lights as he works.





   37      EXT. BUTCHER SHOP ALLEYWAY. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        37



   The Young Man, still in his apron, sits on the stoop smoking a
   cigarette.  He watches the life of his neighborhood from the stoop all
   to the soundtrack of the baseball game still being called.

   -A group of young children playing marbles.

   -A man sweeps the sidewalk in front of his grocery
   store.                    He greets The Young Man.

   -A woman pulls a cart full of fruit down the street.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   Except me, I was different. But nobody could see it.





   38      INT. PUBLIC LIBRARY. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        38



   The young man walks down the aisles and aisles of books looking
   uncomfortable and utterly out of place here.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   For the first time, after living in Philadelphia for eighteen years, I
   finally went to the public library. Now let me tell you something,
   before I left, I didn't even know we had a library.  I sat in there for
   days, trying to write, trying to figure out what that word even meant.


   We see The Young Man sitting at a desk.                There is a stack
   of books on the table in front of him.

   38      CONTINUED:             38


                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   I was trying to write about Paris, about what I had seen and felt, but
   no matter how hard I tried, I couldn't get the words right.


   As we push in we see that he is writing in a notebook.
   He stops and crosses out what he has written and begins again. The
   Young Man looks up in frustration.





   39      INT. YOUNG MAN'S PHILADELPHIA BEDROOM. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        39



   -We see The Young Man in his room, packing his things and closing his
   suitcase.

   -We see him hugging his parents, his grandmother, and his little
   sister.

   -We see him stepping out the door and walking down the street as people
   wave goodbye.





   40      EXT. PARIS STREET. TWILIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        40



   It is a beautiful spring night in Paris and we see The Young Man
   walking down the street through the crowd.                   He has a
   bag slung over his shoulder, a cigarette dangling out of his mouth, and
   a smile splattered across his face.


   He comes to the cafe where he first met Celia.                    He
   spots her; she's is serving drinks to three young men sitting at a
   table.


   He stares at her as she does her work, completely unsuspecting that he
   is there.             Suddenly, she turns her head. Their eyes meet and
   lock.                   The world stops, time stops, everything stops.


   She drops her tray filled with drinks onto the three men and runs. The
   men stand up yelling and cursing.


   The Young Man drops his bag and runs. They meet in the middle of the
   street.                He grabs her.      She grabs him.      They
   cover each other in thousands of kisses as people stop and watch.

   The two lovers fall to the ground laughing and crying.





   41      INT. YOUNG MAN'S SMALL APARTMENT. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        41



   A small light burns in the corner of the apartment.
   The Young Man sits at the table in front of a typewriter working away.


   The girl comes over and puts a small cup of coffee next to him.   He
   does not look up, and she stares at him with love.

   41      CONTINUED:             41



   THE OLD MAN (V.O)

   We rented a small apartment, and I began my apprenticeship as a
   writer.           I was in love with Paris, with Celia, with writing,
   with the possibility of writing, with the possibility of words.



   42      EXT. PLACE CONTRESCARPE. DAY.

   We see Celia and The Young Man walking down the street







   CUT TO:

                                                                        42


   together holding hands, smiling, and laughing through the outdoor
   market.



   THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   We were poor, sure, but it was okay.             I mean, everybody was
   poor then, and Paris was still cheap, and a good place to be if you
   wanted to be an artist.



   43      INT. NEWSROOM. DAY.





   CUT TO:

                                                                        43



   We see The Young Man working at writing copy as the sounds of teletypes
   rattle in the background.

                              THE OLD MAN V.O.

   I got a job as a journalist for a small English language weekly. There
   were a lot of them springing up for all the ex- pats, and they'd hire
   anybody who could string a few words together. It was a good place to
   make mistakes, to learn.





   44      INT. YOUNG MAN'S KITCHENETTE. MORNING.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        44



   Celia kisses The Young Man.        They break, and look at each other.
   They kiss again...and suddenly they are going at it, passionately,
   falling to the floor, stripping each other's clothes off.





   45      EXT. PARIS COBBLE STONE STREET. NIGHT.

   THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   Celia and I were married a couple weeks later.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        45



   Beneath the lamp light, the lone couple dance to the night sounds; the
   Young Man dressed in a second hand suit and Celia wearing a second hand
   white gown.                 Alone they dance, staring into each other's
   eyes, the only two people in the world.

   45      CONTINUED:             45



   THE OLD MAN'S (V.O.) (CONT'D)

   I was finally making a little bit of money, and my writing was slowly
   getting better too.



   46      EXT. FIELD. DAY.

   A beautiful field of flowers.

   THE OLD MAN (V.O)

   It was six months after we were married...





   CUT TO:

                                                                        46



   We see her grab his hand, and mouth something to him.     He looks at
   her and says something.            She jumps up and down and says
   something else.                 He picks her up and twirls her round
   and round.





   47      INT. YOUNG MAN'S APARTMENT. DAY.

   DISSOLVE TO:

                                                                        47



   Celia lays in the bed and The Young Man holds a baby bundled up.  Light
   streams in through the window.     The baby begins to cry and The Young
   Man laughs, bobbing the baby up and down.

                              THE OLD MAN (V.O)

   6 pounds and three ounces.         Eyes like her mother.         That
   was my moment.         But I didn't know that then, you never do.





   48      EXT. PARIS STREET. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        48



   Celia and The Young Man walk down the street, the same as before, only
   this time with a baby stroller between them. They walk past two street
   performers.                  They watch a little show and one of the
   clowns bows dramatically and offers a flower to Celia.            She
   takes it and curtsies as the performers run off down the street.





   49      INT. YOUNG MAN'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        49



   The apartment has more furniture and there is a sense of home and a
   young family.                   The Young Man sits in front of the same
   typewriter at a table in the corner a vase with the flower from the
   street performer inside of it.                    He punches the keys
   with an easier expertise as Celia dances around the apartment with the
   baby, who cries uncontrollably.                     He looks up and
   laughs at them.

   49      CONTINUED:             49

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   She used to cry so much I could barely think for two seconds let alone
   write. But I didn't mind...well, most of the time.

   50      EXT. YOUNG MAN'S PARK. DAY.                       50

   The young man, Celia, and the baby lie on a large blanket in the
   garden.      They are sharing a picnic and The Young Man holds the baby
   up above his head as she giggles.




   51      EXT. CENTRAL PARK BENCH DAY.

               The Old Man sits lost in thought for a moment.

                                    RORY

   CUT TO:

                                                                        51


   Sir...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   She was sick.

                                    Rory

   Your wife?

                              THE OLD MAN V.O.

   My daughter, and there was nothing I could do.

   52      INT. YOUNG MAN'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.      52

   A doctor leans over the crib as Celia cries uncontrollably into The
   Young Man's chest.                  He holds her and stares at the
   doctor.


   The doctor covers the baby with a blanket, turns, offers some words of
   condolence and leaves the two standing there.                   The
   Young Man stares out the window, no expression on his face as Celia
   continues to weep and wail in some primordial scream.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   Afterwards, Celia was never the same, and I wasn't the same either,
   even though I tried to be...





   53      INT. NEWSROOM. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        53



   The Young Man sits at his desk working on a story.             Suddenly
   he stops, takes the piece of paper, crumples it up into a ball, and
   rubs his temples.


                                                                   CUT TO:



   54      INT. YOUNG MAN'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.      54


   The Young Man sets down a plate of food in front of Celia. She makes no
   move towards it, as he sits down across from her.  He forces a smile,
   but she makes no expression.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   Celia couldn't look at me.

   He stares at her for a moment, pushes his plate away, gets

             up, and walks out of the apartment leaving her sitting there.

                                                                   CUT TO:


   55      EXT. PARIS ALLEY. DAWN.                       55

   The Young Man wanders down an empty alley holding a bottle of wine as
   he sings drunkenly to himself and dogs bark out at the night.


   56      INT. YOUNG MAN'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.

   The door opens and we see The Young Man enter.                       He
   is obviously drunk.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        56


                                  YOUNG MAN

   Celia. Celia?        Celia!


   He checks the apartment but it is empty.                    He sits
   down at the kitchen table where he finds a note.                    He
   picks up the note and reads it.


                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   It said she had gone back to her mother's in the country. It said she
   needed to be apart. It said she needed time to think. Alone.


   He drops the note to the floor, expressionless, and looks around the
   apartment for a moment.                  He goes to the ice box, opens
   it, stares at it for a moment, then walks away.

   Suddenly, he begins destroying the apartment.


   He smashes dishes and overturns the kitchen table.             He
   punches walls and rips the paintings off of them.


   He spots the typewriter and crosses to his writing
   table.                    He picks up the typewriter and throws it
   across the room, and then smashes the table.


   He ends up on the floor by the window, crying into his hands. He
   finally looks up and sees the typewriter lying on the floor on its
   side.



                                                               (CONTINUED)

   56      CONTINUED:             56

   He crawls over to it and turns it right side up.                    He
   picks up a knob off the ground and re-attaches it.
   He takes Celia's note from off the floor and feeds the blank side into
   the typewriter.

   Beneath the moonlight, lying on the floor, he begins to press the keys
   very slowly. Then the typing begins to grow faster, and The Young Man
   becomes lost in his own world.

   57      SFX: TYPEWRITER KEYS.  57

   THE OLD MAN (V.O. CONT'D)

   I don't know how long I was in that apartment. I can't remember
   sleeping or eating.         I do not know that I went to the bathroom.

   TIME LAPSE.


   We see the night become dawn, then day, then night again, as The Young
   Man continues to work typing away, the words splaying across the page,
   the pages piling up on the floor around him...



   THE OLD MAN (V.O. CONT'D)

   The words, they just came in a stream that I could not control nor
   stop, nor question where they came from.



   58      EXT. CENTRAL PARK BENCH. DAY.

   The Old Man sits talking to Rory.

   THE OLD MAN

   For the first time in my life I was not copying anyone.           The
   words became form,




   CUT BACK TO:

                                                                        58


   and the form became whole.          And after two weeks, finally, I
   stopped.  I was empty. I had nothing left inside of me.       So I sat
   there and read through what I had written.  Some of it, I realized, was
   true, some of it was embellished, and some of it was just dreams, our
   dreams, all there on those sheets of paper.

                                    RORY

   And then what did you do?

                                 THE OLD MAN

   I slept.  Dreamless sleep.        And when I woke, I cleaned the
   apartment.













   CUT TO:



   59      INT. YOUNG MAN'S APARTMENT. DAY.        59

   -The Young Man lifts a bookcase from off the ground.

                              THE OLD MAN V.O.

   I took a shower, I had a shave.         I put on a suit.         I took
   our story and I went to find my wife.


   -He washes his face and shaves with a straight razor in the mirror.





   60      EXT. CELIA'S FAMILY'S HOUSE. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        60



   It is a large house in the countryside.                  The door opens
   and Celia stands in the doorway silently staring at The Young Man.


   We can see that she has black circles around her eyes and her face is
   very pale.                    He takes her in his arms.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   She pleaded with me to go back to Paris without her.





   61      INT. CELIA'S BEDROOM. EVENING.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        61



   The two sit in the room. Finally, he gets up, takes out a LEATHER
   VALISE from his suitcase. He takes out the folder containing the pages
   of the story. He leaves the pages on the bed beside her and walks out.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   So I gave her the story and I left, not knowing if I would ever see her
   again.


   The Young Man walks out of the house and down a country road
   despondent.





   62      INT. PARIS TRAIN. DAY. Celia sits on the train.

   THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   Three weeks later she wired me to say she was coming back.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        62



   She's reading the pages when THE CONDUCTOR comes in and announces that
   the next stop will be Paris.               She puts the pages back in
   the folder and into the valise.

   62      CONTINUED:             62


   As the train pulls into the station Celia gathers her belongings and
   stands up.                    As she moves down the corridor the valise
   falls from her hand without her knowing.                   The valise
   is then kicked around by the passenger disembarking and finally under
   one of the seats.


   Celia gets off the train and The Young Man is waiting for her on the
   platform.                  They embrace, holding each other.


   We CUT BACK inside the train and see the valise on its side beneath the
   seat as the train pulls out of the station.                  On the
   platform The Young Man and Celia disappear into the crowd...





   63      INT. YOUNG MAN'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        63



   We see The Young Man unpacking her things.        Occasionally he grabs
   her from behind and kisses her neck.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   I asked her if she had read the story. She said "no." She had started
   but could not bare to think about the past. She said she wanted to
   start life over fresh, a clean slate. She said it like she had decided
   it was the easiest thing in the world to do. Then I asked her where the
   pages of the story were...





   64      INT. YOUNG MAN'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        64



   The Young Man searches through the bags, becoming more and more
   frantic.

   (*French with subtitles)

                                  YOUNG MAN

   Where?  I don't see them.

                                    CELIA

   In the valise. I know it's here. I brought it...

                                  YOUNG MAN

   Are you sure you didn't leave them at your mother's?

                                    CELIA

   I know I had them with me.

                                  YOUNG MAN

   So you lost them?!      Celia...

   64      CONTINUED:             64


   I'm sorry.

   CELIA


   He paces around in disbelief.

                                    CELIA

   I said I'm sorry. You act as if I meant to lose them!

                                  YOUNG MAN

   And you act like they don't mean anything! Or you don't care that they
   meant something to me! Me.

   She stares at him.


                                    CELIA

   They're just words. You can rewrite them!


                                  YOUNG MAN

   You're not only one who lost her. I lost her too.


   They stare at each other.                  He grabs his coat and leaves
   her standing there.





   65      INT. YOUNG MAN'S TRAIN STATION. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        65



   We see THE SAME SHOTS from The Old Man's memory in the HOTEL ROOM.
   The Young Man weaves frantically through the train station, searching
   all the bags, knocking some over, and fighting with other travellers
   who curse at him.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   If I had just said something else, if I had just gone home, if I had
   just...


   A conductor grabs him and they exchange words.                   The
   conductor shakes his head 'no.'

   Celia, running in behind him, stares at him helpless.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   I hated myself for caring about those pages, those stupid words. Words,
   they ruin everything...





   66      EXT. CENTRAL PARK BENCH. DAY.

   CUT BACK TO:

                                                                        66



   Rory now looks sickened and pale as he listens to The Old Man.

   66      CONTINUED:             66



                                 THE OLD MAN

   We tried to put things back together for a while, but you can't erase
   the past, no matter how much you want to.           For the first time
   I longed for home.                 I longed for myself.             A
   few weeks later the longing became so unbearable I left, and I never
   returned to Paris, and I never saw Celia again.             I wrote
   her, but she never wrote me back.

   He lights a cigarette.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Over the next twenty years I wandered, hoping I could find some place
   that felt like home, or my idea of what home should be.     I worked as
   a stringer for a series of newspapers; I dealt blackjack in Vegas; I
   tried to work as a screenwriter in Hollywood, that's where I met Fante;
   I pumped gas; and I even sold light bulbs door to door for a while.
   But after I lost those pages, I never set a word down that looked right
   to me again.     Maybe I just didn't want to go that far in again, or
   maybe I just couldn't, so eventually I just stopped trying.
   Finally, I settled in up north.



   67      INT. GREENHOUSE. DAY.


   The Old Man waters the plants and sweeps the floors. Somehow, he
   appears content.



   68      EXT. CENTRAL PARK BENCH.                     DAY.

                                    RORY

   That's uh...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Ahh, it ain't over yet.       See, this is where it gets really
   interesting, kid.



   69      INT. BOOKSTORE. DAY.

   The Old Man wanders around the bookstore.

   THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   See, about a year ago I wandered into one of those big chain bookstores
   on a Saturday afternoon.

                                   (MORE)

























   CUT TO:

                                                                        67




   CUT TO:

                                                                        68







   CUT TO:

                                                                        69

   69      CONTINUED:

                                                                        69

   THE OLD MAN (V.O.) (cont'd)

   At the front of the bookstore was one of those large promotional
   setups.



   The Old Man stands in front of cardboard setup that reads: 'The Window
   Songs.'             There is a large picture of Rory.

                             THE OLD MAN (V.O.)

   Interesting, yet ridiculous title. Books are the easiest things to
   judge by their covers, so I picked up yours.

   We see The Old Man picking up the book and reading the flap.

   THE OLD MAN (V.O. CONT'D)

   It said that the young author was a fresh new voice with something to
   say. They even compared you with writers like Hemingway and Faulkner.
   You didn't look like Hemingway, but what can you do?

   Anyway, I flipped open to a story and began to read...

   We see The Old Man flip open the book and begin to read.

                              THE OLD MAN(V.O.)

   The narrator was standing over a crib. His eight month old daughter was
   dying and there was nothing he could do about it...I read one line...


   We see The Old Man close the book and look up, an awed expression on
   his face.





   70      EXT. CENTRAL PARK BENCH. DAY.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   One line of your story... And then I started reading more about this
   young man who had written this great work.          He'd already
   received countless awards, and the public eagerly anticipates his next
   effort, and I must confess, as do I.

                                    RORY

   (Shaking his head) Look, I-I-I think we have a
   misunderstanding.          See, I found...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   There's no misunderstanding here, kid.

                                    RORY

   But, you see, I...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   That's my story.        My words.      What the fuck is a Window Song
   anyway?!

   CUT TO:

                                                                        70

   70      CONTINUED:             70

   Rory shrugs...

                                    RORY

   My publisher...thought the title...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   I don't know why you did it, and I don't really care.

   Rory stares at him.


                                 THE OLD MAN

   Don't worry, I'm not gonna hurt you. I just thought you should know the
   story behind the stories you robbed in case anybody ever asks.

   Rory can't look at him.

   THE OLD MAN (CONT'D)

   So, maybe now, you can write your second book.       (He stares at
   Rory)       I'll see ya around, kid.


   The Old Man gets up and slowly walks away, coughing to
   himself.          As we push in on Rory's face we...





   71      INT. AUDITORIUM. NIGHT.

   DISSOLVE TO:

                                                                        71



   Clay Hammond is still reading his book at the front podium.

                                    CLAY

   ... And he sat on that bench unaware of the world or of time passing
   around him. After a few hours the sun finally set, and Rory Jansen
   slowly rose, searching for his way home.

   Clay Hammond closes the book and looks up at the audience.

                                CLAY (CONT'D)

   That's, uh, the end of part one.


   He smiles and steps away from the microphone.                 A short
   balding man, RICHARD FORDHAM, dressed in a decadent white suit rushes
   to the microphone.

                                   RICHARD

   There will be a half hour...


   He looks at one of his assistants standing off to the side for
   confirmation.      The assistant nods his head.

   71      CONTINUED:             71


                              RICHARD (CONT'D)

   ...half hour intermission, giving us all a chance to catch our breaths,
   especially Mr. Hammond.


   There is scattered applause as the crowd files out towards the
   lobby.            Clay exits backstage.

   72      INT. AUDITORIUM LOBBY. NIGHT.                       72


   In the lobby various people meandering around.                     A
   few of them clap as Clay enters, and some holding books approach him
   for autographs and pictures.


   Richard Fordham rushes over to where Clay is standing, followed by his
   two assistants.

                              RICHARD (CONT'D)

   People, please! Give the Man some breathing room. It's his break, for
   Krishna's sake!

   Clay and Richard shake hands and begin to walk.

                                    CLAY

   Ahh, you're just jealous it's not for you, Richie.

                                   RICHARD

   My dear, if I never see my own name scribbled upon the inside cover of
   a book again it will be too soon.

                                    CLAY

   Your nobility knows no bounds.

                                   RICHARD

   No, my ego knows no bounds. My nobility is a sham.


                                   RICHARD

   You know where your room is so if you just want to lie down, relax for
   a while, that's fine.           Did I ever tell you that when I was
   doing my first book tours, at intermission, I would go to my room and
   masturbate.

                                    CLAY

   You don't say, Richard.


   Suddenly, DANIELLA, the young, attractive, intellectual looking girl
   who entered the reading late approaches Clay and Richard.


   Clay and Richard stop and stare at her.                  She smiles at
   Clay, fresh faced, open, engaged.                  She holds a glass of
   wine towards him.


                                  DANIELLA

   I read that you like the 2005 Rhones.


   She hands the glass to Clay.       Clay takes it, looking her over.
   She does not look away.              Richard studies the two of them.


                                   RICHARD

   Did you also read he has an eight inch penis?




                                                                  Richard!

   CLAY HAMMOND


   DANIELLA


   Actually, I read that it was six.

                                CLAY HAMMOND

   You shouldn't trust what you read in the gossip pages.

                                   RICHARD

   Are you kidding? As far as I can tell that's the only part of the press
   that you can actually trust. (He stares at them.) Well, I should be
   going before I let my wicked tongue snap again.

   He snaps his fingers at his assistants.

                              RICHARD (CONT'D)

   Come along, boys!         Don't forget, Clayton,

   30 minutes.            No time for foreplay.         Oops! There it
   goes again.

   He begins to walk away.

                              RICHARD (cont'd)

   Thirty minutes!  I once kept them waiting for two hours... And they
   waited.

   Daniella and Clay watch as Richard walks away.

                                    CLAY

   Sorry about that.

                                  DANIELLA

   Don't worry, I've read his books.

   Clay sips his wine, nods appreciatively.

                                CLAY (CONT'D)

   So what did you say your name was?

                                  DANIELLA

   I didn't.          It's Daniella.


                                    CLAY

   That's a beautiful name.

                                  DANIELLA

   Can't you think of anything better to say?

   He looks at her and gulps the rest of the wine.

                                    CLAY

   Why don't we go back to my little room? It's got much better wine and
   cheese, and I won't have to sign any more books.

   Maybe I'll even be able to think of something interesting to say.

                                  DANIELLA

   Lead the way.


   Clayton offers his arm to her.                 She takes it and they
   make their way through the crowd.

                                VOICE (O.S.)

   Clayton!      Clayton!


   A silver haired man in a dark suit, JOEL WEINSTEIN, rushes up to Clay
   and Daniella.              He shakes Clay's hand vigorously.


   JOEL  (cont'd) You remember me, don't you?

                                    CLAY

   How are you, Mr. Weinstein?

                                    JOEL

   Joel.  Please, Clay.  Call me Joel.

                                    CLAY

   I'm sorry, Joel, how are you?

                                    JOEL

   I'm very well.  I just wanted to tell you I love the novel.  I love all
   your stories and novels, but this one...

                                    CLAY

   Well, thank you very much.

                                    JOEL

   (To Daniella) You know, I was his first fan.


                                    CLAY

   Yeah, you just couldn't publish me.

   Joel laughs.


                                    JOEL

   I know, I know... Actually, you're the reason I went out on my own. I
   was tired of having to sell work I didn't believe in.


                                    CLAY

   I'm glad I could help. (BEAT) Well, if you'll excuse us...

                                    JOEL

   Sure, sure... We really should get together sometime, Clay.

                                    CLAY

   That would be great.          Call me.

   Clay and Daniella walk away and Weinstein stares after them.

                                                                   CUT TO:


   73      INT. AUDITORIUM DRESSING ROOM. LATER.           73

   Clay and Daniella are stretched on the couch. They both hold glasses of
   wine. Daniella has removes her Balenciaga heels as they sit laughing.

                                  DANIELLA

   So why don't you stop asking me questions and tell me something about
   yourself?

                                    CLAY

   Ahhh, I want to rest my voice. I read and it gets very dry. I still
   have a whole other section...

   He pretends to clear his throat.

                                  DANIELLA

   Don't bullshit me.

                                    CLAY

   I'm not.

   He sips the wine, smiles.

                                  DANIELLA

   Well that's okay, I know everything about you anyway.

                                    CLAY

   Oh, yeah.   Everything?

                                  DANIELLA

   Everything.

                                    CLAY

   What do you know?


                                  DANIELLA

   I know...that you hate tomatoes.       I know that you think Miles
   Davis' 'Kind of Blue' is the best jazz recording ever made.       I
   know that Paris is your favorite

   city.       I know...that you love to watch re- runs of Cheers.       I
   know that you took Latin for seven years in high school, but cheated on
   every test.

                                    CLAY

   Wait a minute.           How do you know that?

                                  DANIELLA

   Esquire.  You said it yourself.

                                    CLAY

   I really have to start reading these interviews with me. What else do
   you know?










   BEAT.

   DANIELLA

   Uh, I know that you've been with your wife since your Freshman year of
   college, and that you met her in your American Cinema 101
   class.             I also know that you go to every home Yankees
   game.              And I know that you, Clayton Hammond, are a genius.



                                    CLAY

                          Shows how much you know.


   Daniella What's that?

                                    CLAY

   I missed two Yankees games last year.

   She laughs.  He becomes quiet.

                                CLAY (CONT'D)

   And my wife and I are separated.

   She stares at him.


                                  DANIELLA

   I actually did know that.

   He stares at her and takes a sip of wine.

                                    CLAY

   How'd you get backstage tonight anyway, Daniella?

   I'm a student at Vassar. I begged my professor for his ticket.

                                    CLAY

   What do you study, I mean other then me?

                                  DANIELLA

   French Literature, you're just my minor.

                                    CLAY

   French Literature, Jesus.

   She slaps his leg and smiles at him.

                                CLAY (CONT'D)

   So you begged your professor, huh?

                                  DANIELLA

   Hmmm hmm.

                                    CLAY

   And that worked?

   She scoots closer.


                                  DANIELLA

   I can be very persuasive when I want to be.


                                    CLAY

   You don't say...


   The moment is sexually charged and building towards contact when there
   is a sudden knock at the door.

                                CLAY (CONT'D)

   Yeah!  Come in.

   The door opens and a ASSISTANT peeks in.

                                  ASSISTANT

   Mr. Hammond, they're ready for you.

   Daniella looks at him.

                                  DANIELLA

   Yes, Mr. Hammond, we're ready for you.





   74      INT. AUDITORIUM. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        74



   Clay stands before the podium.                He opens the book and the
   crowd becomes silent.

   This is, uh, the second and final selection of the evening.



   75      EXT. NEW YORK CITY. DAY.

   The sun rises over the city.

   76      TITLE CARD: `RORY'

   77      INT. RORY AND DORA'S NEW YORK CITY APARTMENT. DAY.


   CUT TO:

                                                                        75



                                                                        76

                                                                        77



   A real estate agent is showing them a depressing, small, railroad
   apartment looking annoyed and rushed as she looks the young couple
   over.

                                    DORA

   You said this is the cheapest apartment you have?


                                   REALTOR

   It's the cheapest you're gonna find on the island, sweetheart, or at
   least in any neighborhood you want to live.

                                    DORA

   Rory, can we afford this?


   Rory tries to open a cabinet that is painted shut and the knob breaks
   off in his hands.                He smiles at Dora.

                                    RORY

   If we can't afford this, what do you think the place is gonna look like
   that we can afford.

   Dora thinks, looking troubled.

                                   REALTOR

   Honey, you're lucky to have this, believe me.     If you don't take it
   now it'll be gone by noon and then it could be weeks...



                                    RORY

   We'll take it.



   78      INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT STAIRWELL. DAY.



   DISSOLVE TO:

                                                                        78



   We see Rory and Dora struggling with boxes, trying to get them up the
   many flights of stairs.

   He loved her.            He loved New York.           But most of all
   he loved living all the cliches, believing that he alone was the master
   of them.           The young struggling writer fighting for his voice
   to be heard...



   79      INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.





   CUT TO:

                                                                        79



   The apartment is half decorated.                    We see candles
   burning and two half full wine glasses.                  Rory and Dora
   are making love on a make shift bed on the floor.

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   He loved the idea of fighting to make the rent, fighting to make his
   art, living on as little as possible, like all the great writers he had
   read about. He liked cheap bottles of wine and candles, a pack of
   cigarettes, and nothing to do but wander the streets of his city.





   80      EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        80



   Rory and Dora wander the streets of the Lower East Side, holding hands,
   looking at the little trinkets the street vendors are selling.


   They stop at a table where an old lady is selling
   pins.                  Dora stares at them.


                                    RORY

   How much for the one with the butterfly?

                                   VENDOR

   Twenty dollars.          It's part silver.

                                    RORY

   Part?

                                   VENDOR

   It's silver plated.

                                    Rory


                                                                   Plated?


                                                                   Plated.

   VENDOR RORY


   I'll give you fifteen.

                                                                    $17.50


                                                                     Deal.

   RORY



   He hands her the money, she gives him the pin.

                                    DORA

   Wow, Rory, you really drive a hard bargain. Remind me never to get into
   a negotiation with you.


   He playfully slaps her on the ass and pins it on Dora's blouse brushing
   her hair back.             She kisses him.

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   It was perfect, exactly as he had imagined it.            He was where
   he was supposed to be, his first novel was almost done, and he figured
   it was just a matter of time for greatness to find him.





   81      INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        81



   Rory sits at a table in the corner writing.                  Dora comes
   over and rubs his shoulders.

                                    RORY

   I'm just doing a final pass.

                                    DORA

   And then what?

                                    RORY

   And then I'm going to send it out. To that agent who Professor Wallen
   recommended.

                                    DORA

   And then?

   He pulls her onto his lap.

                                    RORY

   And then we're gonna celebrate.

                                    DORA

   Rory, we don't have the...

   He holds his hand to her lips.

                                    RORY

   Shhhhhh.  And then we celebrate.

   81      CONTINUED:             81

   Suddenly they kiss, the kissing becoming heated.                  Rory
   breaks away.

                                RORY (cont'd)

   I better get back to this.

                                    DORA

   Too bad...


   As she walks away, she teasingly lifts her skirt just enough to give
   Rory a good look at some thigh and the very bottom of some ass.  He
   shakes his head and goes back to his work.

   From the hall Dora watches him working.


                                                              DISSOLVE TO:

   CU: PRINTER.


   The printer is finishing up with the last page.                   At
   the bottom we see the words "The End."
        Rory pulls the last page out of the printer staring at
   it.                   He puts it on top of the large stack on his desk,
   smooths them out, inserts them into a folder and puts them into the top
   drawer of his desk that he locks with a key.





   82      EXT. STREET. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        82



   Rory walks down the street in his best jacket and tie, fresh hair cut,
   cleanly shaved, bright faced, excited.

   83      INT. NEW YORK CITY RESTAURANT. AFTERNOON. 83

   Rory sits across from a very well dressed, short, yet powerful looking
   man.              TIMOTHY EPSTEIN chatters away as Rory fidgets
   nervously.

                                   TIMOTHY

   ...He said you were a great student. One of the best he's ever had.

                                    RORY

   Well, Professor Wallen was tough. He taught me a lot.

                                   TIMOTHY

   He's one of the few that I trust as far as young writers to watch. When
   he tells me to read someone, which isn't often, I read them, and that's
   why I took the time to read your book...

                                    RORY

   Well thank you for taking the time.

              They stare at each other awkwardly for a moment.


                                    RORY

   So...what do you think?             *

                                   TIMOTHY

   It's really, really great. A fantastic piece of writing, Rory, you
   should be very proud of this, especially for a first novel.

                                    RORY

   Thank you...very much. I worked very hard on it.

                                   TIMOTHY

   Well, the work shows. I saw a lot of truth in your writing and I can't
   say how impressed I was. And you're a kid. I mean, I can't believe how
   young you are. I even called Jeff right after I finished to thank him.

                                    RORY

   Well, uh, that's great...thank you. Thank you very much. I can't even
   believe this. (Rory looks at him, waiting...) So, uh, what do we do
   now, Mr. Epstein?

                                   TIMOTHY

   Please, Rory, call me, Tim.

                                    RORY

   Tim, what do we...do now?

                                   TIMOTHY

   Rory, I'm going to be honest with you. Your book, it's exactly the kind
   of material I want to be involved in representing. It's why I got into
   this business.


                                    RORY

   That's great to hear.

                                   TIMOTHY

   It's great, yeah, but unfortunately, the reality of the publishing
   world at this particular moment is such that...Rory, I don't know how
   to get a book like this published.

   Rory stares at him.


                                    RORY

   What does that mean, exactly?

   83       CONTINUED: (2)         83









   84       BEAT.









   85       BEAT.

   TIMOTHY

   Rory, I even took this book into my...partners to see if there was any
   way.  He, I mean, they read it, and he really liked it, and he said the
   same thing I'm saying to you right now.

                                                                        84

   RORY

   Well, what are you saying, exactly?

   TIMOTHY

   No one's going to support this book from a first time novelist right
   now, at least we can't do it.          There's no market for it.

                                                                        85



   Rory begins to speak but, choking on his words, can't say anything.


                              TIMOTHY (CONT'D)

   Look, don't take this the wrong way.

   It's hard for a first timer with no track record to get published no
   matter what the circumstance, but especially when the book is
   very..."interior" like yours is.

                                    RORY

   Interior?          What does that...?

                                   TIMOTHY

   Subtle, artistic, just good, Rory, not Danielle Steele, not some
   celebrity tell all, obvious. Unfortunately, there's a small market for
   a book like this.

   Movies, TV, the internet, blogs; we live in the world of transmedia...

                                    RORY

   Trans...media?

                                   TIMOTHY

   A lot less people read now, and that means there's very few spots for
   new work from unknown writers. Publishers, they don't take the time or
   investment to develop a young writer...

                                    RORY

   I understand, but, Mr. Epstein, Tim, what am I supposed to do? I mean
   this, writing, this is what I'm going do.

   85      CONTINUED:             85


                                   TIMOTHY

   What are you supposed to do?          You keep writing.          Send
   your stories to magazines, journals, any place they'll publish you.
   You've got to develop an audience, grass roots work, readings.
   Then, with time...

                                    RORY

   But what about this book? They don't publish novels in magazines. Am I
   supposed to just shelve it and forget about it? I worked on it for
   three years.


                                   TIMOTHY

   What do you want me to say, Rory? I'm just explaining the reality to
   you. You don't have to forget about it, you just have to be patient, or
   you can publish it on the internet, lots of people do...

   Rory looks down at his plate.

                                   TIMOTHY

   Look, when you're ready, it'll happen. Or it won't happen. If you're
   looking for guarantees you should be an accountant.


   The waitress comes over and places some appetizers on the table.


                                   TIMOTHY

   Hmmmmmmmmmmmm.         Apps.



   Timothy looks at Rory.

                                   TIMOTHY

   Come on, Rory, let's have something to eat.  The oysters are the best
   in the city.       Get whatever you want, it's on the agency.

   Rory sits in his chair across from Epstein, dazed.



   86      EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET. DAY.








   CUT TO:

                                                                        86



   Rory walks down the rush hour street in a daze, tie undone, shirt
   untucked, one face in a million.


                                                                   CUT TO:



   87      INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT. EARLY EVENING.               87

   Rory and Dora sit across from each other, eating silently.

   She reaches across and touches his hand.                       He looks
   up at her.

                                    DORA

   I remember...

   She takes his hand.                     Rory looks up at her.

                                    DORA

   I remember when we first met, Rory, in the quad. I remember that shirt
   you were always wearing, with the stripes and the hole in the right
   elbow. And I looked at you and I had a flash...never happened with any
   other guy. I jumped ahead and I saw our lives together...

   Rory looks at her.


                                    DORA

   We're going to be fine, Rory.


   He reaches across the table and kisses her on the cheek. They quietly
   go back to eating.





   88      EXT. JANSEN SUPPLY CO. DAY.

   We see Rory walking into the warehouse.

   89      INT. MR. JANSEN'S OFFICE. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        88



                                                                        89



   A man just past middle age sits at a desk barking on the phone while
   looking over some paperwork.                   It is a very musty old
   office with no windows.                   On the desk is an INBOX
   overflowing with a seemingly endless amount of papers.

                                 MR. JANSEN

   Look, if he doesn't want to do it, he doesn't want to do it! Hey, I
   said I'll try... Of course that's my word!


   Rory knocks on the door.                   MR. JANSEN motions for Rory
   to come in and sit down, but to hold on for a moment while he finishes
   the call.


                             MR. JANSEN (cont'd)

   Look, the bottom line is, I need to know by Wednesday, because that's
   when I place the orders!

   Mr. Jansen hangs up the phone and rubs his temples.

                                    RORY

   Working hard, ah, Pop?

   89      CONTINUED:             89


                                 MR. JANSEN

   Ahhh, all I do is put out fires. Never stops. (BEAT) So, boyo, to what
   do I owe this honor, or shouldn't I ask?

                                    RORY

   Look, you seem busy so I'm just gonna come at you straight...

                                 MR. JANSEN

   How much?

                                    RORY

   Just enough to get us through the next month.


                                 MR. JANSEN

   And then what? You show up here the month after that?

                                    RORY

   Pop, look, I got a book into this agent and they said it shows real...

                                 MR. JANSEN

   Rory, did they give you any money?

                                    RORY

   Pop, it's not like that.     It's not like your business, okay, where
   you do work and you know you're gonna get paid for it.     I gotta pay
   my dues.

                                 MR. JANSEN

   No, Rory, I gotta pay your dues. And I keep paying and keep paying...

                                    RORY

   Look, I wouldn't ask you unless I really needed it.           You think
   it's easy for me to come down here like this?

   Mr. Jansen takes out his check book.

                                 MR. JANSEN

   And do you think it's easy for me to say no?     Look, I feel like I'm
   hurting you more than I'm helping you.     And it's not just about the
   money.     You need to start taking some responsibility for your life.

                                    RORY

   Pop, do you know how hard it is to be a writer?


                                 MR. JANSEN

   Well, maybe it should be a hobby instead of a profession, at least
   right now until you get your feet on the ground.

                                    RORY

   Thanks for the encouragement, Pop.

                                 MR. JANSEN

   And what about that girl of yours, huh? You can't get married without
   any money.

                                    RORY

   Who said anything about getting married?!

                                 MR. JANSEN

   Well, you've been going out for five years, you've been living together
   since college.          This isn't a ridiculous assumption...

                                    RORY

   You know what, I'm sorry came down here. Forget it.

   Rory stands up to leave.

                                 MR. JANSEN

   Rory, hold on a second, okay.


   Rory turns back around and stares at him.                   Mr. Jansen
   writes the check out and holds it out to Rory.

                                 MR. JANSEN

   Look, this is the last time, Rory. You gotta get a job. Find something
   that will allow you to support yourself.

   That's just part of being a man.


   Rory takes the check, folds it, and puts it in his pocket without
   looking at it.

                                    RORY

   I'm trying to be a man.

                                 MR. JANSEN

   The other part of being a man, no matter how painful it might be, is
   accepting your limitations. No one can do everything they want to do in
   this life. That's not reality.

   Jansen looks at Rory.

                                 MR. JANSEN

   You're gonna do what you want to do, right?        (BEAT) Look, I got
   work to do.

                                   (MORE)

                             MR. JANSEN (cont'd)

   Maybe you and Dora can come in for dinner one night next week? You're
   mother would like to see you once in a while.


   Rory stands to leave.                His father picks up the
   phone.                 As Rory gets to the door he turns.

                                    RORY

   You think this is easy for me?

   His father covers the phone.

                                 MR. JANSEN

   Hey, Rory, you can always work here.

   He goes back to talking on the phone and Rory stares at him.

                                                                   CUT TO:


   90      EXT./INT. INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING CO. OFFICE BUILDING. DAY. 90


   It is an antiseptic, large, and busy office.                 Rory,
   wearing a terrible tie, ill fitting khaki pants, and a blue apron over
   his shirt, walks beside a middle aged, bearded, balding, man dressed
   very similar to Rory.               JEFFREY BIRKMEYER pushes a cart
   past secretaries and offices.                    On his lapel is a tag
   that reads 'Supervisor.'

                                   JEFFREY

   So, anything marked in blue needs to be delivered ASAP.        Every
   piece of mail goes right to the assistants, never bring it into the
   office, the agents, they're inept.     Protocol, you understand?

   They come to a secretary on the phone.

                                   JEFFREY

   Hi, Irene, how ya doing today?

   They continue to push the cart down the hall.

                                   JEFFREY

   So, the system's pretty simple. It can get crazy after Wednesday
   though, especially around the holidays.

                                    RORY

   Can I ask you a question?

                                   JEFFREY

   Shoot.

                                    RORY

   Has anybody who ever started in the mail room gotten representation
   here?






   Rory nods.

   JEFFREY

   You're a writer.



   JEFFREY

   Sure.  It's happened.              Most of the guys who work here are
   writers.

   JEFFREY


   Really?

                                   JEFFREY

   Yeah, there was this guy down in the mail room, his name was David
   Edelson.

                                    RORY

   Edelson? You mean the guy who writes those legal thrillers?

                                   JEFFREY

   That's the one.            He had only been working for four weeks and
   he got in with Steltzer upstairs.          Just ran into him in the
   hallway.          They started talking and Edelson passed his book to
   him.      Steltzer read it, loved it. Six months later Edelson's got a
   best seller out.              You know the rest, book tours, film
   rights...

                                    RORY

   When was that?

                                   JEFFREY

   I think it was about five years ago.  I never met the guy, I just heard
   from people who were here. It's kind of become a legend. But it
   happens, y'know. I mean take me for instance.

                                    RORY

   You?

                                   JEFFREY

   Yeah, I've made a million connections here. See, I'm a writer too.

                                    RORY

   Really?

                                   JEFFREY

   Yeah, I got all my stuff into different agents around here.

   He nods, trying to feign excitement.

   I'm actually glad it's taken me a while to break through, it's really
   given me a chance to develop my style, you know, understand the market.
   (BEAT) So what kind of stuff do you write?

                                    RORY

   I don't know. "Angry young man," I guess.

   Jeffrey laughs.



                                   JEFFREY

   I used to be like that.     Now I write sci fi.     You mature,
   y'know.          Just give it time.

   Rory looks at him and half smiles.

                                   JEFFREY

   Anyway, to get back to this...

   They continue wheeling the cart down the hall.



   91      INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.










   CUT TO:

                                                                        91



   Rory is lying on the couch staring at the TV.                 He looks
   at his desk, the computer, the notebook, then goes back to watching the
   TV.               Dora comes over, rubs his shoulders and kisses his
   head.


                                    DORA

   Are you going to write tonight?

                                    RORY

   I'm pretty tired. You just want to grab some dinner, maybe watch a
   movie.

                                    DORA


                                                                     Sure.


                                                                     Okay.

   RORY DORA


   Well, get up, ya bum!

   He kisses her and pulls her down.



   92      INT. HALLWAY. DAY.



   CUT TO:

                                                                        92



   Rory pushes a mail cart down a very large and very long hallway.

   92      CONTINUED:             92


   The hallway is lined with a series of symmetrical desks behind which
   sit secretaries, who are all dressed alike and wearing the same black
   glasses.                  On each desk Rory places a copy of his book
   with red ribbon around it.                  As he passes each office
   door, a man dressed in a black suit and red tie walks out of the office
   briskly and robot like.

                                    RORY

   Mr. Kimmelman!

   The man does not acknowledge him.


   Rory pushes the cart to the next office and another man exits.


                                    RORY

   Mr.  Toffsky!

   The man does not acknowledge him.

                                    RORY

   Mr. Barish, Mr. Reiver, Mr. Chilewich, Mr. Sussman!

   None of the men acknowledge him.


   Rory keeps pushing the cart.                 He comes to the last
   secretary on the row.         She looks up.    It is Dora.

                                    RORY


   Dora?


   Hi, Rory.

   DORA RORY


   When did you start working here?

                                    DORA

   I've always worked here, Rory.

   Rory places the book on her desk.

                                    RORY

   Dora?


   But she is now typing, not paying attention to him.              Rory
   continues pushing the cart down the endless hall...





   93      INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT. DAWN.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        93



   Rory opens his eyes.  He is lying in bed, Dora asleep next to him.
   There are the sounds of early morning traffic on the street.      Rory
   rises, walks to his desk, and sits down before a pile of mail. He picks
   up an envelope and opens it.


                                                               (CONTINUED)

   93      CONTINUED:             93


   The letter inside is a form letter rejection slip from a
   publisher.        Stoically he stares at it then unlocks and opens his
   drawer taking out his manuscript and a pile of rejection slips.  He
   places this one with the others and stares at the manuscript for a
   moment, then out the window. He goes to place the manuscript and the
   rejections slips back into the drawer, but then stop and dumps them all
   in the trash.

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   Without so much as an effort he was promoted to supervisor, and six
   months later he and Dora were married...





   94      INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        94



   Suddenly, the door is kicked open. Rory in his tuxedo and cummerbund
   carries Dora, holding an open champagne bottle across the threshold,
   the two of them completely drunk.                  Rory stumbles and
   they fall onto the couch laughing.                   She pours
   champagne all over him and they play fight...

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   They honeymooned in Paris.





   95      EXT. RUE CARDINAL LEMOINE. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        95



   Dora and Rory stand outside of a small unassuming apartment in the
   Latin Quarter.


   People pass as Rory stares up at the window, Dora standing beside him
   looking bored.                    A small plaque on the door is the
   only marker that Hemingway once lived there.

   96      CU: THE PLAQUE OF HEMINGWAY.             96

                                    DORA

   This is it?

                                    RORY

   Yup, this is it.

   Rory stares.


                                    DORA

   Ready to go?

                                    RORY

   Yup.

                                                                   CUT TO:



   97      EXT. PARIS STREET. TWILIGHT.              97

   Rory and Dora wander down the quiet alley holding hands in a LONG SHOT.


   98      INT. ANTIQUE SHOP. DAY.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        98



   It is a small antique shop filled with old trinkets, tables, chairs,
   and lamps.                    A few old bikes hang from the ceilings.
   Rory is looking at small nick-knacks on the table.                 Dora
   approaches him holding a small glass lamp.

                                    DORA

   This would be great for my mother, don't you think?




                                                                     Sure.

   RORY



   He goes back to looking at the trinkets, and Dora disappears. A moment
   later she calls out.

                                    DORA

   Rory, come here!


   Rory puts the trinket down, and walks over to Dora.                 She
   is holding an old, weathered, leather valise with a strap.

                                    RORY

   What?

                                    DORA

   What do you think of this?

   Rory takes the bag.


                                    RORY

   I think it's...old.

                                    DORA

   This would be great for you.

                                    RORY

   What am I going to do with it?

                                    DORA

   I don't know, you could clean it up, use it for work.          It's
   classy.

               Rory studies the bag, unzips it, looks inside.

                                    DORA

   I'm going to buy it for you.

   He looks at the bag for a moment longer.


                                                               (CONTINUED)

   98      CONTINUED:             98


                                    RORY

   I love it, thank you.


   He kisses her and goes back to looking at the bag, shaking his head.





   99      EXT. LUXEMBOURG GARDENS. TWILIGHT.

   CUT TO:

                                                                        99




   Rory and Dora walk through the park, Rory now with the bag over his
   shoulder.       They pass some street performers.         The
   performers put on a little show for them, and one of the mimes bows
   dramatically and offers Dora a flower, which she takes and smells, as
   the two continue walking.

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   They returned to New York and the honeymoon was over...

   100    INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT.

   Rory and Dora are at the sink washing the dishes together.








   100






   101    INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT. DAY.

   CUT TO:

   101



   Rory sits alone on the couch looking over some of the things they
   brought back from Paris.   On the coffee table sits the valise.  Rory
   picks it up, stares at it, and starts looking through it.  He puts a
   few papers in the valise, then flips it over onto his lap.     There is
   a second almost hidden zipper on the outside part of the bag.     Rory
   opens it up, looks inside, and pulls out an old manilla folder.


   Rory looks at the folder with some writing on it, much of the ink
   smudged, and opens it.                Inside there are about two
   hundred sheets of yellowed typewriter paper.                    On the
   paper is faded yet still legible typeface.                  Rory looks
   down at the first page and begins reading.

   TIME LAPSE as Rory reads, becoming more and more transfixed.

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   As he read the story on those pages, it was as if the words were
   infecting him. They were simple words, yes, but they were true,
   inevitable, carved out of emotion and experience, and in those words,
   he saw the embodiment of everything he had ever aspired to be, and the
   reality of what he would never become...

   Rory turns over the last page and looks up.




   102    SFX: UNLOCKING DOOR.


   DORA

   102


   Rory?  Hello?


   Rory, coming out of the dream, quickly puts the pages back into the
   folder and then into his desk drawer locking it up. He looks up at Dora
   just as she walks in.

                                    RORY


                                 Oh, hey...

   He stares at her, smiling lightly.



   103    INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT. EVENING.



   CUT TO:

   103



   Rory and Dora sit looking very out of place across from another young
   and very gawdy looking couple at an upscale Chinese Restaurant JASON
   and CATHERINE ROSEN.

                                  CATHERINE

   You know, Jason and I are planning a vacation to Turks and Caicos in
   March. You two should try and make it. We're going to cruise the
   Caribbean.

                                    JASON

   (mouth full of noodles) They kiss your ass, Rory!

   Dora laughs.


                                    DORA

   I don't think we're going to be able to make that trip.

                                  CATHERINE

   These summer noodles are delicious.

                                    JASON

   What'sa matter, no flow, bro?

   Rory half laughs.


                               JASON (CONT'D)

   I miss this guy!

   He puts his arm around Rory's shoulder.

                               JASON (CONT'D)

   You couldn't tear us apart in college, and now he won't even return my
   calls. Ahh, that's all right. I'll tell ya, this guy, I remember...

   103    CONTINUED:            103


   The sound dissolves as we see Jason continue to speak as Rory looks on
   more and more disgusted with each passing moment, and Dora shifting
   uncomfortably in her seat.

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   Three years later and nothing had happened to him but his life.
   All the cliches had worn thin.       The apartment was too small, cheap
   wine just tasted cheap, and the nobility of being an unknown had shown
   itself for what it was.       How long had it been since he had tried
   to write a word?       How long had it been since he felt like he had
   anything worthwhile to say or the words to say it?

   Rory suddenly stands up and slams his hand down on the table.

                                    RORY

   FUCK!  Do you ever shutup.

                                    JASON

                          Jesus, Rory!  What the...

   Rory rushes away from the table and out the front door.

                                    DORA

   Rory! (To Jason and Catherine) I'm so sorry. I'm...

   Dora runs out after Rory.





   104    EXT. STREET CORNER. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

   104



   It is lightly snowing.            Rory, hands in his pockets, paces
   around, angrily muttering to himself as Dora approaches him.

                                    DORA

   What is...?

   Rory holds his hand up to her face.

                                    RORY

   Don't! Just don't, because right now I just can't...

                                    DORA

   What is the matter with you?

   Rory paces back and forth

                                    RORY

   I don't...how the fuck...do you get... to where...you are? How the fuck
   does that happen?

   104    CONTINUED:            104


                                                                   Rory...

   DORA

   RORY


   I look at my life, I look at his life, I look at your life, I look at
   my father's life, I look at everyone's life, and I don't have any
   fucking clue how anyone ends up where they do.             I don't
   know.             I don't know.             I don't know...

                                    DORA

   It's okay.       You don't have to know.       You don't.        (BEAT)
   There's so much time, Rory.       Rory, we have so much time...

                                    RORY

   I'm talking about my fucking life here!

                                    DORA

   What about your life?

                                    RORY

   It's...It's not...It's not right...I don't know.       Nothing is
   right.            It wasn't supposed to be...like this.

   Dora looks at him in disbelief.

                                    DORA

   Fuck you.       How's that supposed to make me feel?       How's that
   supposed to make me feel?!


                                    RORY

   I'm not...I'm not what I thought I was, Dora, and I never will be. I am
   not...I'm sorry.


   He suddenly hugs her, and buries his head in her neck, surrendered.
   She embraces him. We watch them as the snow falls harder and city
   buzzes around them, without caring.

                                  CLAY V.O.

   That night Rory went home with his wife to their apartment as they
   always had before.         They washed the dishes together like they
   always did, then Dora took a bath while Rory read on the couch.

   Afterwards they laid in bed watched a talk show, turned out the lights,
   made love, and Dora fell asleep...


                                                                   CUT TO:



   105    INT. RORY AND DORA'S BEDROOM. NIGHT.       105


   The apartment is dark and Dora is sleeping.                  Rory lies
   on the bed staring at the ceiling.                    He stands and
   goes to his desk, opening up the drawer with the key.

                                  CLAY V.O.

   But Rory did not...


   Rory removes some pens and papers, finally pulling out the folder with
   the yellowed manuscript. Still standing, Rory begins to read.





   106    INT. AT RORY'S DESK. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

   106



   Rory sits typing at his computer as the words appear on the screen.


                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   ...and when he had finished reading he re- typed every word as it was
   written on those pages.            He did not add a period, change a
   comma, or even correct the spelling mistakes.            He didn't know
   why he was doing it, he just knew he wanted to feel the words pass
   through his fingers, through his mind; feel what it might have felt
   like...To touch it, if only for just a moment.

   Rory continues typing...





   107    INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT. DAWN.

   DISSOLVE TO:

                                                                       107



   Rory sits at his desk reading over the now freshly printed out novel as
   the sun rises over the city.              He stacks the pages neatly
   together and then places the pages on the corner of his desk.
   He shuts out the lamp and walks out.





   108    INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.


   Dora sits on the couch.                     Rory enters holding a bag
   of groceries and eating an apple.

                                    DORA

   CUT TO:

   108


   Rory?

   Rory puts the groceries down.


   DORA (cont'd) Honey, come here.

   108    CONTINUED:            108


                                    RORY

   What is it?           Are you okay?

   Rory sits down on the couch.

                                    DORA


   Kiss me...


   What?

   RORY



   She kisses him furiously.                       He pulls away.

                                RORY (CONT'D)

   What's going...Oh my God! Are you pregnant?


                                    DORA

   No. Rory...

                                    RORY

   Then what then?         What?

                                    DORA


                                                                      I...


                                                                     What?

   RORY DORA


   I read your book.

                                    RORY

   My what?    Book...Oh, Dora!

                                    DORA

   No, Rory.           Stop. Let me explain.           It was on your
   desk.        Listen to me.           I swear, I never looked through
   your stuff before.

   But I was cleaning up, and it was just lying on the desk and I was...I
   just read the first sentence. And then I read the second, and then I
   picked it up...

                                    RORY

   No.  Oh, no.     Dora, look...You don't...

   She kisses him again.                       He pulls away.

                                    DORA

   You are everything you always wanted to be.

   Rory stares at him.


                                    DORA

   Why would you keep these a secret from me?


                                    RORY

   It's not a secret.          It's not...

                                    DORA

   These stories they're just so different from everything else you've
   done.

   They're fuller, truer, more honest...

                                    RORY

   Dora...

                                    DORA

   You need to publish this, Rory. They'll publish these. They have to.
   They'd be crazy not to.

                                    RORY

   Okay, I think we're going a little overboard here.

                                    DORA

   Rory, I'm telling you, this is special. I see parts of you in this
   novel that I always knew were there, but I had never seen before in
   your work.

   He looks at her quietly, intensely for a moment.

                                    RORY

   What parts of me, Dora?

   She stares at him.


                                    DORA

   What?    Well...all of you.       I mean, it's just so real.       This
   needs to be seen.

                                    RORY

   Look, do you know how many guys in the mail room have been slaving on
   the great American novel for the last twenty years, dreaming their
   lives away? You should hear how they talk. All of them deluded. You
   know what? They're pathetic, and I won't be one of those guys.     I
   won't.

                                    DORA

   Yeah but this isn't...You always said you wanted to be a writer. But,
   this...you are a writer, Rory. Take these into work and give them to
   somebody.

   Rory looks down.  Dora grabs him and kisses him.

   If you won't do it for yourself, will you do it for me?



   109    INT. INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING CO. OFFICE. DAY.


   CUT TO:

   109



   An office with a beautiful view.                  A very obese man,
   JOSEPH CUTLER, sits behind a wooden desk reading over some paper work
   when there is a knock on the door.


   Joseph looks up.         Rory stands in the doorway in his supervisor
   uniform.


                                    RORY

   I'm sorry to bother you, Mr. Cutler.

                                   JOSEPH

   Hey, Rory, how are you today?

                                    RORY

   I'm good.

                                   JOSEPH

   Good.       (He speaks into a speaker phone.) Debra, will you get me a
   copy of the Gorski Contract?

   Cutler goes back to his paper work.

                                    RORY

   Mr. Cutler, do you have a minute?

   Cutler looks up.


                                   JOSEPH

   Well, I'm kind of busy here. What can I do for you?

                                    RORY

   Mr. Cutler, I've been working here for two years now, and I've never
   asked anyone for a thing.

                                   JOSEPH

   I have a feeling you're about to ask for a thing now, Rory.

   Cutler smiles.


                                    RORY

   See. I have this book, this novel, and I know you get submissions all
   the time, and you're very busy...I'm not looking for anything other
   than your opinion, because I would really appreciate it.

   Well, Rory, unfortunately, I can't read everything everyone asks me to
   read. I wouldn't have time to breathe.

                                    RORY

   I understand.

                                   JOSEPH

   But I'll tell you what I'm going to do. You leave the manuscript with
   my assistant and I'll make sure she reads it.     If she likes it, I'll
   have a look.

                                    RORY

   I would really appreciate it.



   110    EXT. SCHOOL PLAYGROUND. DAY.













   CUT TO:

   110



   Dora sits in a circle with her class of seven year olds. She's reading
   to them from a book of Shel Silverstein poems, 'Where The Sidewalk
   Ends.'

                                    DORA

   (Reading) Each man and woman, girl and boy, put down their ploughs and
   pots and toys, and pulled until kerack! Oh, joy- They broke right
   through that peanut butter sandwich. A puff of dust, a screech, a
   squeak - The King's jaw opened with a creak. And then in a voice so
   faint and weak - The first words that they heard him speak were, 'How
   about a peanut butter sandwich?'


   The children and Dora laugh.             Dora looks up to see Rory,
   who's been watching the class.

                                  CHILD #1

   Peanut butter sandwiches!



   He smiles.


   DORA

   Well, boys and girls, it looks like we have a visitor!

   CHILD #2

   Who, Hungry Mungry?

   DORA

   Are you Hungry Mungry?

   RORY

   No, I don't think so.

   HUNGRY MUNGRY!        HUNGRY MUNGRY!

                                  CHILD #3

   (To Dora) Is that your boyfriend?

                                    DORA

   This is my husband, Mr. Jansen.

                                ENTIRE CLASS

   Hi, Mr. Jansen!

   She gives him a kiss.


   THE ENTIRE CLASS EHOOOOHHHHHHHHH!

                                    DORA

   Okay, quiet down, boys and girls.           (To Rory)       What are
   you doing here?       How come you're not at work?

                                    RORY

   I need to talk to you.

                                    DORA

   Ten minutes. I'll meet you on the swings.



   RORY

   The swings?         Okay.

   She kisses him again.


   THE ENTIRE CLASS EHHOOOOOOOOHHHHHHH!



   111    EXT. PLAYGROUND. AFTERNOON.







   DISSOLVE TO:

                                                                       111



   Rory sits on the swings alone.           The playground is quiet and
   tranquil.           Suddenly a mad rush of children pour out of the
   school and onto the playground like the storming of the beaches at
   Normandie.


   Rory watches children playing on the jungle gym and swings. The boys
   chase the girls, the girls scream and chase the boys.       Dora walks
   over to him holding the hand of a little girl.


                                    DORA

   Okay, Cynthia go and play now.

   Cynthia shakes her head adamantly, no.


   DORA (cont'd) C'mon. Go play.

   Will you watch me?

                                    DORA

   Of course I will.

                                   CYNTHIA

   You promise?

                                    DORA

   Yes.  Go play.

   She runs away.  Dora look at Rory who is still on the swing.

                                DORA (cont'd)

   And what's your problem, little boy?

                                    RORY

   Will you swing with me?


   She takes the swing next to him and they sit for a moment. Rory takes
   her hand in his as they sit for a moment.

                                    RORY

   I gave them the book.

   Dora looks at Rory for a moment.

                                    DORA

   That's great, Rory.



   112    BEAT.


   Rory doesn't say anything. The sound of the squeaking swings.
   He looks up at Dora.

                                    DORA

   Why are you smiling?

   He looks away.

   112



   CYNTHIA'S VOICE (O.S.) LIAR! YOU'RE A LIAR!


   They turn and the little girl who she has just sent away to play stands
   there.




                                                                  Cynthia!

   DORA


   CYNTHIA


   You said you were going to watch me. They pushed me again. They always
   push me.

   Dora stands up.

   Okay, Cynthia I'm coming. (To Rory) Rory, I got to work. I'll see you
   at home, okay?

   She kisses him on the cheek and starts to leave.

                                    RORY

   Dora...


   She turns around and looks at him.                 He stares at her for
   a moment.


                                    DORA

   I'll see you at home, okay.


   Rory watches Dora as she walks away with Cynthia and the sounds of the
   children's screams and laughter swells.





   113    INT. INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING CO. OFFICE HALLWAY. DAY.

   CUT TO:

   113



   Rory pushes a mail cart down the hall.   He is talking to a fresh young
   trainee.              On Rory's lapel is a red 'supervisor' tag.  The
   kid is also dressed in a mail room apron...

                                    RORY

   ... So, like I said, anything marked in blue needs to be delivered
   ASAP.        Always give all packages and mail to the
   assistants.        (They pass Irene)        Hey Irene.        Don't
   take anything into the offices, they'll just lose it and then they
   blame us.        All right. So, the next thing is...

   A voice calls out from inside an open office.

                                JOSEPH (O.S.)

   Rory!

                                    RORY

   Hold on a second.

   Rory leans into the open door.

                                    RORY

   What can I do for you, Mr. Cutler?

                                   JOSEPH

   Come on in here for a second.

                                    RORY

   I'm actually in the middle of training...

   Yeah, yeah, he'll find his way back. Shut the door.

   Rory shuts the door.


                                   JOSEPH

   Sit down, sit down. Cand I get you a bottle of water, cup of coffee.

   Rory sits down.


                                    RORY

   I'm fine, thanks.

                                   JOSEPH

   You know what I did last night? On the absolute insistence of Nina, and
   God knows I tried to blow her off, I read your novel last night.

                                    RORY

   You did?

                                   JOSEPH

   Have you shown this to anyone else? Anyone outside the agency.

                                    RORY

   Uh, no, I haven't, sir.

                                   JOSEPH

   You haven't sent it out anywhere?

                                    RORY

   You're it, Mr. Cutler.  I mean, well, you know, besides my wife.

                                   JOSEPH

   And what did she think?

                                    RORY

   She's the one who insisted I bring it to you.      I mean, I told her
   you were busy and wouldn't have time...

                                   JOSEPH

   I can't wait to meet your wife so I can thank her.


                                    RORY

   You can't wait... I'm not sure I understand what it is...

   Rory, I would very much like to represent you and your work and see
   that this book gets published in the right way, with the right
   marketing, and the kind of support it deserves.        You've written a
   remarkable work of fiction.



   114    INT. RORY AND DORA'S APARTMENT. NIGHT. Rory is on the phone.

                                  CLAY V.O.

   It didn't take long...

                 Rory hangs up the phone and shuts his eyes.

                                  CLAY V.O.

   All that was left to do was to sign the contract.



   115    EXT. CITY STREET. DAY.





   CUT TO:

   114











   CUT TO:

   115



   Rory walks through the open market of Chinatown at rush hour. The
   streets are packed, and the vendors are screaming as Rory passes
   through them all.

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   He thought about the last few years.            He thought about his
   father.            He thought about Dora.            He thought about
   the person who wrote those stories and tried to imagine him, wondering
   if he was alive or dead.

   Rory continues to walk through the crowd.

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   There was no epiphany, no earth shattering moment, no single sign from
   the Gods to point him in the right direction as there had been in all
   of the literature he had loved growing up.


   Rory suddenly stops on the corner, and it is just another day.      We
   push in on his face.





   116    MONTAGE SEQUENCE.

   CUT TO:

   116



   -We see Rory standing with Cutler in his office.                  The
   signed contract lies on Cutler's desk and he pats Rory on the shoulder.

   116    CONTINUED:            116


   -We see Rory and Dora moving the last of the boxes out of their old
   apartment and shutting the door behind them.

   -We see Rory signing books at a bookstore. There is long line.       He
   sits beside a display for The Window Songs, looking cleaned up in a
   nice suit now.       Success looks good on him.


   INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT (SAME AS WITH AGENT TIMOTHY EPSTEIN.) NIGHT.

   Family celebration.  Mr. Jansen raises a glass with pride.

                                 MR. JANSEN

   To my son, the writer.

                                  EVERYONE

   To Rory!


   -We see Rory being interviewed for television by a Charlie Rose like
   character.

   -We see Amazon.com on a computer screen

   -"Oprah has Chosen - 'The Window Songs.'

                             CLAY HAMMOND (V.O.)

   The book was a unanimous critical and commercial success.            It
   seemed to speak to people in a way that no one could have
   anticipated.       Without sentimentality or pretension, it seemed to
   address a collective longing for a simpler time that had long since
   passed and would never be again.            It won 'The American
   Fellowship of Arts and Letters Award' which had never been given to any
   first time writer before Rory Jansen.





   117    INT. RORY'S NEW YORK CITY HOTEL. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

   117



   Dressed in a tuxedo, Rory and Dora, dressed in a black Yves St. Laurent
   dress and wrapped in a red shawl, emerge from an elevator into a
   crowded hotel lobby.

   They pass through the crowd and approach the concierge desk.

                                  CONCIERGE

   Your limo is waiting out front, Mr. Jansen.




   Thank you.

   RORY JANSEN



   He slips the concierge a bill.

                                  CONCIERGE

   Congratulations again, sir.

   117    CONTINUED:            117


                                 RORY JANSEN

   Thank you very much.


   They walk out the front door into the rain, and the limo driver opens
   the door.

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   Rory Jansen had made his choice....


   Dora steps into the limousine.              Rory, following her, looks
   around at the street around him, and then, finally, steps inside.


   The door closes and the limo pulls away.                   We see The
   Old Man standing off to the side, staring at the limo as it disappears
   down the street.

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   And then he met The Old Man...





   118    INT. AUDITORIUM. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

   118



   Clay looks up from the book.                  Silence from the
   audience.

                                    CLAY

   Thank you.

   The audience suddenly applauds.

                                CLAY (cont'd)

   Now, if you'd like to know the rest of the story, well, you'll just
   have to buy the book.


   He shuts the book.                  The audience breaks into more
   applause and laughter as Richard Fordham steps up behind
   Clay.                   He shakes Clay's hand, whispers something in
   his ear, and steps to the microphone.


                                   RICHARD

   First, I'd like to thank Clay for sharing selections from his new novel
   with us.

   I'm sure I speak for everyone when I say it was truly...grim.

   The crowd laughs.


                                   RICHARD

                          And wonderful, of course.

               Richard applauds and the crowd joins in again.

   118    CONTINUED:            118


                                   RICHARD

   Let me remind you that all of tonight's proceeds from your donations go
   to 'The Young American Authors Endowment.' Once again thank you to Mr.
   Hammond. And now drinks and cocktail wienies will be served in the
   lobby. So make sure you indulge because, as you all know, you paid for
   it.


   There is a bit more muffled applause and laughter as the crowd
   disperses.

   TITLE CARD: 'CLAY'





   119    INT. AUDITORIUM LOBBY. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

   119



   There are a few signs posted around the lobby reading: 'An Evening With
   Clayton Hammond.'                  The crowd hovers around with drinks,
   stuffing their faces with hors d'oeuvres.                 Clay stands
   in the middle speaking with an elderly couple as others stand around
   waiting to speak with him.

                                ELDERLY WOMAN

   I was just saying to Melvin the other day that in our society there is
   an increasing decline in moral behavior, that people have no scruples
   anymore.

                                 ELDERLY MAN

   And I think it's no different then it's always been. Man's been
   screwing over his fellow men since the beginning of time.


                                ELDERLY WOMAN

   How can you say that when you look at the world around you? When you
   turn on the news...


   Clay stares at them silently as the argument
   continues.                  A young man looking very
   'pseudo-intellectual' steps forward

                                  YOUNG MAN

   I've read that you love Turgenev. What would you say is your favorite
   book of his?


                                    CLAY

   'First Love.'

                                  YOUNG MAN

   Really, I would have pegged you more for 'Father's and Sons.'



                                    CLAY

   Well...you would have pegged me wrong.

   A middle aged woman steps forward to speak with Clay.

                                  WOMAN #1

   In your work you seem hesitant to draw conclusions about our moral
   behavior, or to make any statements about it...

                                    CLAY

   Uh, yes.  I would say I am hesitant.

                                  WOMAN #1

   Don't you think you owe it to your readership to be more than just a
   mirror of society, but to have a viewpoint, to draw a line.        I
   just think that the work, especially your characters might suffer for a
   lack of...

   120    CU: DANIELLA.

   She looks around, finally spotting Clay in the center of a

















   120


   crowd as he listens to the woman.                   She stares at
   him.                   For a moment, he turns and sees her, smiling,
   then goes back to the woman...


                                  Woman #1

   ...And in the end the greatest works expose themselves, don't you
   think?

   Clayton thinks.



                                    CLAY

   I write stories the way I see them, imagine them, the way they want to
   be written.  I'm not trying to make any points, to make a        grand
   statement about humanity, that's for pundits and
   politicians.            In life we have to judge to make decisions
   about how to live our lives, but in art we get to ask questions and
   have the luxury of trying to understand.        That's all I want: to
   understand.

   121    SFX: LAUGHTER


   We see Richard Fordham in the background with a group of people.
   They are all laughing as he talks.

                                  WOMAN #2

   Is your wife here?        I would love to meet her.











   121

   Unfortunately she couldn't make it this evening.


   He smiles, his face betraying nothing.                   Clay looks
   around and now spots Daniella at the wine table, alone, looking back at
   him, sipping from a glass.

                                    CLAY

   I'm sorry, will you excuse me for a moment...?


   Clay crosses to her, picking up a glass of wine as people continue to
   pass and offer congratulations.             Daniella turns to him.


                                    CLAY

   Do you have some I.D. I could see there, Ma'am?

   She wipes a smudge from his cheek.

                                  DANIELLA

   You looked like you were drowning.

                                    CLAY

   Are you kidding? I'm right in my element.

            He laughs.  Then stops.      They look at each other.

                                  DANIELLA

   You want to get out of here?

   Clay looks around.


                                    CLAY

   Well, I'm supposed to be mingling, smiling, taking pictures, got to
   raise that money in these troubled economic times. Y'know, got to move
   that product...




   Oh well...

   DANIELLA



   He looks at her as she bats her eyelashes and turns away, smiling to
   herself.             Clay shakes his head.

                                    Clay

   All right, fine, you convinced me.

                                  DANIELLA

   I thought you'd never ask.

   He takes her arm and they begin to walk towards the door.

   Clayton, Clayton!


   Richard Fordham breaks away from the group he is talking to and
   intercepts Clay and Daniella.

                                   RICHARD

   Leaving us so soon?

                                    CLAY

   It certainly appears that way, Richard.

   Richard nods to Daniella.

                                   RICHARD

   My dear, do you know what they say about patience?


                                  DANIELLA

   What do they say?

                                   RICHARD

   Patience, my dear, is a virtue.

                                  DANIELLA

   T'is a virtue I do not possess.

                                   RICHARD

   (To Clay) Quite a little snapper we've reeled in this evening.

   Clay puts his hand on Richard's shoulder.

                                    CLAY

   G'night, Richard.

                                   RICHARD

   Well it's good to be the king.        Good night.        Sleep
   well.        Or, don't.        Drinks on Tuesday night?

                                    CLAY

   How about raquetball?

                               RICHARD FORDHAM

   And then drinks. You buy after I wipe the floor with your ass...again.


   Clay and Daniella walk towards the door, making their way through the
   crowd.


                                    CLAY

   Used to be wrestling partners. I retired. He's still bitter.


   She laughs.  They ward off a few people holding books. Clay signs one
   or two as he walks.

   Mr. Hammond, I'm a writer, well, an aspiring one, and when I read your
   words...it makes me want to...disappear into a monastery and take a vow
   of silence.



                                    CLAY

   Thank you...I think.

                                  DANIELLA

   Daddy, don't we have to leave?

   He looks at her.  She smiles big.

                                    CLAY

   Uh, yes, dear.  We do. (To fan) It was nice to meet you.

   They walk towards the door.

                                   FAN #1

   Great to meet you, Mr. Hammond!

   122    EXT. AUDITORIUM. CONTINUOUS.


   Clay and Daniella walk through the doors.                     Clay
   loosens his tie as he approaches his car.

                                    CLAY














   122


   Get in.

   She looks at him.



   DANIELLA


   Whatever you say.


   She steps into the car and for a moment Clay looks around at the city,
   takes a deep breath, and then finally steps into the car himself
   shutting the door as it pulls into traffic.



   123    INT. CLAY'S TOWN CAR. CONTINUOUS.

                                   DRIVER

   Where to, sir?

                                    CLAY

   Are you hungry?           You want to get some dinner?

   123



                                  DANIELLA

   Let's go to your place.

                                    CLAY

   My place?

                                  DANIELLA

   I want to see where you write.

   It's really not all that exciting.

                                  DANIELLA

   Why don't you let me be the judge of that?

               She stares at him and Clay turns to the driver.

                                    CLAY

   You heard the lady.          Take us home.

                                   DRIVER

   You got it, Mr. Hammond.

   With that the car disappears into traffic.



   124    INT. CLAY'S APARTMENT. LATER.













   DISSOLVE TO:

                                                                       124



   The lights turn on and Clay and Daniella enter the apartment. She spins
   around...


                                  DANIELLA

   This place is so elegant...exactly the way I imagined.

   Clay smiles and comes up behind her.

                                    CLAY

   May I take your coat?

                                  DANIELLA

   Thank you.


   She slides her coat off and he takes it watching her as she looks
   around.  He looks at the coat in his hand and then tosses it onto the
   couch.

   Daniella spins around

                                  DANIELLA

   If I lived here I would never leave.

                                    CLAY

   What about food?

                                  DANIELLA

   I'd order in.

                                    CLAY

   Money?

                                  DANIELLA

   Mail order business from home.

   Who needs them?

   He stares at her as she turns...

                                  DANIELLA

   Is that a real Miro?

   She approaches the painting.

                                    CLAY

   I sure hope so or we were overcharged.

   She stares at it, turns back to him.

                                  DANIELLA

   Show me where you work.

   125    INT. CLAY'S OFFICE. CONTINUOUS.

   She sits in his chair behind his desk looking around.

                                    CLAY

   See I told you, not that exciting, is it?

                                  DANIELLA

   Well, it is to me.

                                    CLAY

   I got a nice bottle of Bordeaux, I've been waiting for an occasion...

                                  DANIELLA

   Hmmm.  Sounds good.

                                    CLAY














   125


   C'mon...

                                  DANIELLA

   Can we drink it in here?

                                    CLAY

   In my office?

                                  DANIELLA

   Yeah...Can we?

   Clay looks at her.


                                    CLAY

   Well, we can do anything we want.

                                  DANIELLA

   Get the wine.

   125    CONTINUED:            125

   Clay walks out leaving her alone in the office.                  She
   runs her finger across the keyboard of the computer.
   Gets up, walks to the bookshelf and glances over the
   titles.                  She picks up a photo off of the table by the
   couch of a young Clay and a beautiful red haired woman on the street in
   Paris.                   We push in on the photo, the outline of
   Daniella's face staring at it.


   126    INT. CLAY'S KITCHEN. CONTINUOUS.

   Clay finishes uncorking the bottle.                       He grabs two
   glasses

   126


   from the shelf and turns to walk back up the stairs, but just then he
   catches his reflection in a mirror on the wall.


   From afar he stares at himself for a moment, runs a hand through his
   hair, breathes, and then walks towards the stairs.


   We follow him as he walks into the office but it's
   empty.                    He looks around.




   Hello?


   Out here!

   CLAY


   DANIELLA'S VOICE



   He steps out onto the verandah which overlooks the street below and the
   park.

   He hands her a glass of wine.

                                    CLAY

                          What should we drink to?

                                  DANIELLA

                          Your new book, of course.

                                    CLAY

                          How about we drink to...?

   She clinks his glass with hers.

                                  DANIELLA

   Your book.

   She takes a sip.  He smiles.

                                    CLAY

   It's cold out here.

   She sidles up to him.

                                  DANIELLA

   It's perfect.


   He leans down and the two almost kiss.                 Just as suddenly
   she turns away staring out at the skyline as he looks at her.


                                  DANIELLA

   Will you tell me something?

                                    CLAY

   If I can.

                                  DANIELLA

   What happens?

                                    CLAY

   What do you mean?

                                  DANIELLA

   In your book, what happens to Rory? I mean, after the old man finds
   him.

   Clay takes a sip of wine and leans against the railing..

                                    CLAY

   Will you tell me something?

                                  DANIELLA

   If I can?

                                    CLAY

   Why would a beautiful, intelligent girl like you ever want to be
   something as silly as a writer?

                                  DANIELLA

   Silly?

                                    CLAY

   Don't you know that words ruin everything?

                                  DANIELLA

   I don't believe you for a second. You love words. Now tell me what
   happens.

                                    CLAY

   The book's going to be out at the end of the month...And for just
   $19.95 you'll be able to find out for yourself.

                                  DANIELLA

   But I'm here with you now and I can't wait that long. I'm young,
   spoiled, impetuous, and American. Humor me.

   He stares at her.


                                  DANIELLA

   Please, pretty please.          Tell me.


   He smiles, laughs a little, takes her hand, staring down at the palms,
   then stares up at her as she waits.





   127    EXT. CENTRAL PARK BENCH. DAY.

   The Old Man looks at Rory Jansen.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   ...but I just thought you should know the story behind the stories you
   robbed, in case anybody asks.           So, maybe now, you can write
   your second book.           See ya around, kid.

   The Old Man walks away coughing.

   CUT TO:

   127




   Rory sits on the bench dazed as the afternoon passes.


   An old lady saunters towards him and sits down on the staring straight
   ahead.


   bench,

   128

   TIME LAPSE.

                                                                       128


   Three little kids play a game of catch around Rory.


   129

   TIME LAPSE.

                                                                       129


   A homeless man digs through the trash can next to the mumbling to
   himself.

   bench,


   Finally rising and walking out of the park, Rory leaves his book on the
   bench.


   The homeless man sees the book, picks it up, and drops it into his
   shopping cart.





   130    EXT. STREET. EARLY EVENING.


   Rory wanders the streets, bumping into people, walking aimlessly...

                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   And so, like many of the great cliches in the history of civilization
   who were faced with a difficult question of the soul, Rory Jansen
   decided the only thing to do was to drink on it...



   131    INT. BAR. EVENING.

   Rory sits at the bar extremely drunk.

   CUT TO:

   130










   CUT TO:

   131


                                    RORY

   ...Did you know that there are more insects in one square mile of rural
   earth then there are people on this entire planet?

   The bartender stares at him.

                                  BARTENDER

   No, pal, I didn't know that.

                                    RORY

   Did you know that if a foul ball is hit behind third base it's the
   shortstop's play?       Fuck the third baseman!

                                  BARTENDER

   Actually, I did know that. Fuck the third baseman.

                                  BARFLY #1

   Yeah, fuck the third baseman, the bum!

                                    RORY

   Did you know that some Chinese typewriters have 5,700 characters, and
   the keyboards are almost three feet wide?

                                  BARTENDER

   No shit?  I don't know Chinese.

                                  BARFLY #1

   Fuck the Chinese! (He thinks.) Cantonese or Mandarin?

                                  BARTENDER

   Hey, did you know that the right lung takes in more air then the left
   lung?

                                    RORY

   Did you know that Ernest Hemingway lost five stories and they were
   never found? And they're just out there, somewhere.

                                  BARTENDER

   You want another drink pal, or you want to play Trivia Pursuit?

                                 RORY JANSEN

   More whiskey.


   The bartender takes down a bottle of whiskey and pours Rory a a shot.


                                    RORY

   Do you think man is born inherently a desperate creature?


   The bartender looks at Rory.                 We see a few faces of the
   barflies sitting around the bar as they drink and smoke at mid-day on a
   Thursday.

                                  BARTENDER

   Inherently?             Nah. But I think this world we made does a
   pretty good job on us along the way, pal.          Just take a look
   around.

   Rory laughs, lifts the shot in toast and downs it.

                                                              CUT BACK TO:



   132    EXT. CLAY'S VERANDAH. NIGHT.

   Clay is telling the story to Daniella.

                                    CLAY

   So he gets rip roaring, death defying drunk.        So now he's got his
   nerve.        And he starts thinking, allowing himself to think, maybe
   for the first time in his entire life.        And he comes to the
   conclusion, or more appropriately, this myth he had heard so many times
   before that, 'The truth shall set you free.'


   Clay takes a big drink, then fills his glass.                       He
   offers it to Daniella who puts her hand up...

                                  DANIELLA

   132


   Go on...



   133    INT. RORY AND DORA'S NEW APARTMENT KITCHEN. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

   133



   Rory stands in the doorway, watching Dora who is humming as she cleans
   some vegetables in the sink.

   She turns and sees him.

                                    DORA

   Hey, when did you get home?

   Rory crosses to the table and sits down.

                                    RORY

   Why do you love me?

                                    DORA

   What?

   She looks at him.

                                DORA (CONT'D)

   Are you drunk?




                                                               Dora. What?

   RORY DORA

   RORY


   I need to know why you love me.

   She crosses to the table and sits down across from him.

                                    DORA

   I...I love you because you have beautiful eyes.       I-I love you
   because you act serious but you're really just a goofball underneath
   all that.       I love you because you're good, and you're sensitive
   and you're talented and you respect your talent.       I just love you,
   Rory.       There's hundreds of other reasons that I could never ever
   say, that I wouldn't even know how to say, and I don't know if I ever
   will or would ever want to.

   She takes his hand.



   DORA (CONT'D)

   What's wrong?

                                    RORY

   You really think my eyes are beautiful?

                                    DORA

   148             Yes.

   He looks up at her.






   148



                                    RORY

   They're not mine.

   She laughs.


                                    DORA

   Your eyes aren't yours? What'd you steal em' off the back of a truck,
   kid, or what?


                                    RORY

   I'm a liar.

   She laughs again.


                                    DORA

   What do you mean?

                                    RORY

   Dora I...




                                                                     What?

   DORA


   RORY



   BEAT.

   I didn't write the book.



                                    DORA

   I don't... Rory, what do you mean you didn't write the book?

                                    RORY

   The book.  I just...I stole it.  I mean, it's not even like I changed
   it.           I mean, I didn't know who I was stealing it from, but it
   wasn't mine, and I knew that all along.  I knew that the whole
   time.        But I, I did it anyway.

                                    DORA

   You...stole it.  How?                 Where?

                                    RORY

   Does it really matter now?

                                    DORA

   Why?  Why would you do this?      How could you do this?

                                    RORY

   Look around us, Dora.                 Look at where we are, remember
   where we were?



   Dora steps back from him.

                                    RORY

   It doesn't matter, that book, I didn't write a word.       I just found
   it, copied it over word for word, everything you read, everything
   everyone read, not one word is mine.       Not one single word.

                                    DORA

   WHY?!       And don't you tell me it was for us, for this...

                                    RORY

   Because it was there, and I wanted it so badly to have come from
   me.      And the way you looked at me when you thought that it
   did.      And for a moment I actually almost convinced myself that it
   was mine.      Can you believe that?

                                    DORA

   Rory, Rory...


                                    RORY

   Those words, they're better then anything I could ever write.       I
   knew that.       I know that.       I mean, you said so yourself,
   didn't you?

                                    DORA

   I never said that, Rory.             I never...

                                    RORY

   It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter now.

   Rory laughs, drunk.


                                RORY (CONT'D)

   You're going to tell me you couldn't tell those weren't my words when
   you read them?       You who knows me so well?

                                    DORA

   You were reading all about Paris. We had just gotten back from the
   honeymoon...I thought...


                                    RORY

   You had to have known!

                                    DORA

   No, I didn't know! And I didn't know because I believe in you! I
   just...I believed in you.


   Suddenly, she stands up and walks out of the kitchen.
   We stay on Rory as he sits there, staring for a long BEAT.


   Dora re-enters, goes to the oven, takes out the chicken and begins
   basting it.

   Rory finally turns and looks at her.

                                RORY (CONT'D)

   Say something, please!

   Dora continues basting, calmly.

                                    DORA

   What do you want me to say? What am I supposed to say to you?

                                    RORY

   Anything. Just say something. Tell me...

                Dora finally turns to him, wiping her hands.


                                    DORA

   Forget the book. Forget the stupid awards, the people, and everything
   else. I don't give a shit about any of that.

   You lied to me! This whole time you've been lying to me.

   He stares at her.


                                    DORA

   What about the future?        Did you even stop and think about that
   when you read those words?        When you copied them.        What it
   would mean?        What it would do to you?        To us?


                                    RORY

   Dora, if I tell them now, it's over for me. Everything. This.
   Everything.

   That's it. I'll never have another chance.

   She looks at him.


                                    RORY

   I mean, how am I supposed to even tell my parents, Dora, my father...I
   know I'm wrong, and I know what's right, but I don't know if I can do
   it. I don't know if I can live with that. It just was so easy and small
   and stupid, and now...

                                    DORA

   So what do you want to do?


   RORY I DON'T KNOW!

   She kisses him and stares at him then bangs on his chest.

                                DORA (CONT'D)

   Why did you do this? Why did you do this?! How could you do this?!

   Rory pulls away.



                                                                      RORY

   It was easy.



   134    INT. JOSEPH CUTLER'S OFFICE. DAY.



   CUT TO:

   134



   A dishevelled Rory sits across from Joseph Cutler who stares at him
   silently.


                                   JOSEPH

   You really fucked up.


                                    RORY

   I'm sorry.           I'm so sorry.           I'm going to tell
   everyone, take my name off the book, find this old man and...

   Cutler stands up, goes to the door and closes it.

                               JOSEPH (CONT'D)

   Rory, I think we need to think this through...


                                    RORY

   What does that mean?


   Cutler opens a drawer and pulls out a copy of the Sunday Book Review.
   He stares at it for a moment then fires it on the desk in between them.

                                   JOSEPH

   You got the front cover of the book review this Sunday.

                                    RORY

   No, I don't have the front cover, some old man has it.

                                   JOSEPH

   You're through the door, Rory. It's a hard place to get to, few ever
   do. Now, if you never want to write another word again...















   He smiles.

   RORY

   BUT I DIDN'T WRITE THIS!

   JOSEPH

   The other book of yours I sold, did you write that?

   RORY

   Of course I wrote that.              This isn't something I do...or
   ever planned to do!

   JOSEPH

   Of course you wrote that, Rory



   RORY

   But no one even wanted to look at my work before this
   book!              You wouldn't look at my work.



                                   JOSEPH

   But I did now, and it's good. It's really good.

   What are you saying?

                                   JOSEPH

   You don't want this. Everything you're saying you want, you don't want
   it.

                                    RORY

   Just take my name off the book, is it that hard?


                                   JOSEPH

   And what do you think is going to happen? You think they're going to
   give you a hall pass?           The media, the press, they're going to
   crucify you.           And my ass is out there on the line with you.

   Rory puts his head in his hands.

                                   JOSEPH

   Now You want to pay this man off your advance, that's the right thing
   to do. You want to cut him in on the movie rights, fine.          You
   want to buy him a house, a car, a fucking boat, but don't screw
   yourself for the rest of your life for one stupid mistake, and don't
   you fuck me.          You have such a bright future ahead of you,
   Rory.          You have a lot to give to the world.

                                    RORY

   Sure I do.

                                   JOSEPH

   Trust me, you're not the first author to do something like this. Not by
   a long shot...You ever heard the expression, 'ghostwriter?'

                                    RORY

   No.  Don't you do that...

                                   JOSEPH

   Don't do this to yourself.

   You may not believe me now, but you will thank me later.

   Rory stands up to leave.                       He picks up the book
   review.

                                    RORY

   Is my book, the one that you sold, is it as good as this book? Tell me
   the truth, Joe.

   Joseph looks at him.  He shrugs.

                                 Thank you.



   135    INT. RORY'S OFFICE - NEW APARTMENT. DAY.

   CUT TO:

   135



   A beautiful wood panelled office with a large desk. The shelves of the
   office are lined with books, old and new, paperbacks and vintage
   hardcovers.


   We watch as Rory pulls the bottom drawer of his desk all the way
   out.          He reaches his arm back behind it into the space and
   takes out the old manila folder with the stories.


   He opens the folder on his desk, staring at the
   pages.                   He turns the first page over and we see
   Celia's note written in faded ink.

   Rory sits in his chair and stairs at the note.





   136    EXT./INT. RORY'S BMW CAR. DAY.

   CUT TO:

   136



   Rory drives a BMW on the Merritt Parway.  He stares out the
   window.         We see the sign for Cape Cod and the Islands...

                                                                   CUT TO:



   137    CU: A SMALL BELL JINGLING AS A DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES. Rory steps
   into a GREENHOUSE.

   137


   He looks around, checking down aisle after aisle.          Suddenly, a
   couple people move.              Behind them stands The Old Man,
   tending to some plants.


   Rory freezes, staring at The Old Man as he works, lost in his own
   world.


   The Old Man suddenly coughs, and then looks up staring directly at
   Rory.                They share a moment of awkwardness, then The Old
   Man goes back to spraying the plant.

                                    RORY

   How you doing?

   The Old Man does not acknowledge him.

                                RORY (CONT'D)

   What kind of plant is that?



   BEAT.


   THE OLD MAN

   It's a Ficus. Ficus Elastica.

   It's nice.       It's...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Did you come all the way up here to bullshit about plants?

                                    RORY

   Uh, no, sir.           No.             I suppose I didn't.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Well, if you came here to find out whether I'm going to blow the
   whistle on you, you can relax and go back to your great big life. I
   want no part of your world.


                                    RORY

   That's not what I came here for.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   So what do you want?

                                    RORY

   I need you to tell me what to do.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   You don't have to do anything, kid. You just have to go about your
   business and act like nothing happened.

   The Old Man coughs.                     Rory stares at him.

                                    RORY

   If you didn't want anything from me why did you find me? Why did you
   tell me? Did you just do it to torture me? You don't know me, you don't
   know what and why and how...

   The Old Man suddenly looks up at him.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   I just wanted you to know, that's all.


   BEAT.


   The Old Man goes back to spraying the plants.            Suddenly, he
   looks up.


   THE OLD MAN (CONT'D)

   Do you think you can steal my life, any man's life and claim it as your
   own, and expect to not have to pay?

                                    RORY

   Well, maybe that's why I'm here.


   Rory puts an envelope down in front of The Old Man.
   The Old Man doesn't say anything for a moment.                    He
   looks at the envelope.


                                 THE OLD MAN

   You better pick that up, kid, before I take you out back and kick the
   shit out of you.


                                    RORY

   Look, I'm not trying to pay you off. I'm going take my name off the
   book. I'm going to tell everyone the truth.   I'm going to...

                                 THE OLD MAN

   You're even more lost then you seem.

                                    RORY

   Please, tell me what this is about!

                                 THE OLD MAN

   It's about my wife, and my child. And if you take responsibility for
   those stories you take the legacy of those lives that created those
   stories.   You take all their joy and all their pain. And you are
   responsible for them. You can run from a lot of things in this world,
   kid, but you're not going to run from that.   No.

                   The Old Man looks down at the envelope.

   THE OLD MAN (CONT'D)

   Now why don't you buy a plant with that money?        A Ficus.
   You seem to like them so much.        And then you can take your plant,
   and your money, and all your bullshit guilt, and go home.

                                    RORY

   I just want to make things right.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Things are just things, kid. And nobody can make em' right whether you
   martyr yourself or not. This isn't fiction.

                                    RORY

   But, there has to be something...

                                RORY (CONT'D)

   To right your conscious, to eliminate your guilt? I can't offer you
   absolution, kid. Try a priest.

                                RORY (CONT'D)

   Let me at least...


                                 THE OLD MAN

   I have work to do.

   Rory stares at him.


   THE OLD MAN (CONT'D)

   You really want to do something for me?

                                    RORY

   Anything.      Anything you ask.

                                 THE OLD MAN

   Walk out that door and don't look back. We all make our choices, the
   hard part is living with them. And ain't nobody who can help you with
   that. Ain't nobody.

   Now go, please.


   Rory picks up the envelope, turns, and walks away.             Suddenly
   he stops.


                                    RORY

   Hey, old man...


   The Old Man looks up from his work.              Their eyes meet for a
   long BEAT.






   138    BEAT.

   RORY (CONT'D)

   I loved your stories.



   138



   The Old Man looks at him, finally nods his head, then goes back to
   work, coughing lightly to himself.

   Rory stares at him and leaves.

   The Old Man looks up again and stares out.





   139    EXT. YOUNG MAN'S LES JARDINE DES PLANTES. DAY.

   DISSOLVE TO:

                                                                       139



   The Young Man, lying on the picnic blanket, Celia lies next to
   him.         He puts the baby down on his chest.   From OVERHEAD we see
   the three of them together, sleeping peacefully on the blanket in the
   grass.





   140    EXT. CENTRAL PARK. DAY.

   DISSOLVE TO:

                                                                       140



   Rory and Dora walk slowly through the park together.

                                    DORA

   We're supposed to have dinner at your parents' house tonight.


                                    RORY

   I really don't feel up to going.

   She looks at him.


                                    DORA

   Fine, I'll call your mother.

   He stares out.  She looks at him frustrated

                                    DORA

   How long?  How long does this go on for?

                                    RORY

                          What do you want from me?

   She stops dead in her tracks.

                                    DORA

   Shit or get off the pot, Rory.

                                    RORY

   What?

                                    DORA

   Tell them or don't tell them but I don't know how much longer I can
   watch this show.


                                    RORY

   Do you understand...?

                                    DORA

   Stop being so God damn self important! You fucked up, yeah, but do you
   think you're the only person whose ever made a mistake in this world?

   He turns away.


                                    DORA

   Listen to me, Rory. Maybe you were right, maybe when I read that story
   somewhere I knew it wasn't you, but just like you, I wanted it to be.
   I wanted so badly for it to be you. If that makes me wrong or bad, then
   fine.

   He looks at her.


                                    DORA

   I can see how it happened, I understand, and in some strange way I
   think I even admire you for it. I still believe in you, I still love
   you, always.

   She takes his hand.


                                    DORA

   Let's have a family, Rory, just like we always dreamt. I want to have a
   child with you.


                                    RORY

   I'm going to break. I'm going to break in half. I'm really going to
   break.

                                    DORA

   No you're not.      You're not.      I won't let you.      C'mon, let's
   go home.

                                    RORY

   I can't.

   She takes her hand back.

                                    DORA

   Well I'm cold.           I'm going home.

   She walks away down the path leaving him standing there.

                                                              DISSOLVE TO:



   141    EXT. CENTRAL PARK BENCH. DAY.


   Rory sits on the park bench watching a group of children playing.

   141



                                  CLAY V.O.

   He was sitting and watching a group of kids playing in the park.
   They were just playing catch, wrestling around, y'know, being
   kids.        They couldn't have been more than eleven years old, and
   they looked like they were having the time of their lives.        But
   suddenly, a fight broke out. And all these kids, at least six or seven
   of them, ganged up on this one child...

             We watch as the gang of kids beat up on the child.

                                 CLAY (V.O)

   Rory started to get up, but then he stopped...


   We see Rory staring at the children walking away.                  A
   woman runs over to the little boy whose been beaten.





   142    EXT. CLAY'S VERANDAH. NIGHT. Clay and Daniella, as before.

   CUT TO:

   142

   142    CONTINUED:            142



                                    CLAY

   Those kids, they had no guilt.          They had not learned the
   meaning of that word yet. It was just something they did.
             Like the old men said, "things were just things.



   143    EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET. AFTERNOON.

   Rory walks, a dazed expression on his face.






   CUT TO:

   143



   Rory walks into his apartment building and rides up the elevator.   He
   goes to the door of his apartment, opens it, and walks inside.      He
   enters into the kitchen where Dora stands, her back facing him, at the
   sink.   She suddenly turns.    The two stare at each other in silence.

                                                         DISSOLVE BACK TO:



   144    EXT. CLAY'S VERANDAH. NIGHT. Clay takes a sip of wine.

   DANIELLA

   So what happened?

   CLAY

   I'm cold.         Let's go inside.

   144



   The two walk inside.                     They sit down on the couch
   very close.

                                  DANIELLA

   What?

   He touches her hair.

                                  DANIELLA

   Wait, wait, wait...

                                    CLAY

   What?

                                  DANIELLA

   You didn't finish yet.

                                    CLAY

   C'mon, it's late.        Enough of this.

   He tries to kiss her but she pushes him away again.

                                  DANIELLA

   "Oh, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?"

   Clay looks at her.

   144    CONTINUED:            144


                                    CLAY

   So what's my line?

                                  DANIELLA

   And Juliet says: "What satisfaction canst thou have tonight?"

                                    CLAY

   I'm Juliet?           You made me Juliet?

   She shrugs.


                                  DANIELLA

   Tell me what happens and then you can be Romeo.


                                    CLAY

   You just don't quit, do you.

                                  DANIELLA

   Why won't you tell me?

                                    CLAY

   I'll give you a copy of the book, I'll even sign it for you, okay.


   He looks at her, she looks at him, a momentary battle of wills fought
   between two sets of eyes...


   She leans in so her lips are practically touching his ear as she
   whispers:




   Tell me...

   DANIELLA




   We push in on his face and...



   145    EXT/INT. BRENTANO'S BOOKSTORE. DAY.


   CUT TO:

   145



   A few people are gathered in the reading room as Rory stands before
   them at a lectern.        He stares out empty eyed as the applause
   quiets.  A LONG SILENCE as people wait, staring back at him.
   Awkward.          Strange.          Rory seems to be swaying there and
   looks as if he may run out.      He stares down, takes a deep breath
   opens the book and...very clearly reads:

                                    RORY

   The Window Songs...By Rory Jansen.


   He looks up, staring straight out at the crowd, and as if by memory
   begins to read from the book.


                                                                   CUT TO:



   146    INT. RORY'S NEW APARTMENT OFFICE. NIGHT.
   146

   Rory sits alone in his office in front of the
   fireplace.                   He holds the yellowed
   manuscript.                 Page by page he feeds the stories into the
   fire, watching as they are consumed by the flame.


                                 CLAY (V.O.)

   He would not allow himself to look back. Whatever he had to do,
   whatever he had to lose, he would seal it off.    And it was as if by
   locking off the secret of one man's life for forever, he had unveiled
   another much deeper and darker secret within himself...

   147    CU:  THE LAST PAGE.


   Rory looks over the last page.                       It is the note
   Celia had written to The Old Man.                       He is about to
   throw it into the fire, but then does not.
                     The rest of the pages curl in the flames and burn
   away, turning to ash.








   147






   148    INT. CLAY'S OFFICE. NIGHT.

   CUT TO:

   148



   The two sit on the couch, Daniella still right next to him.

                                  DANIELLA

   And The Old Man?


   He stands up leaving her sitting on the couch and goes to the wine
   pouring himself another drink.

                                    CLAY

   A few weeks after Rory came to visit him, The Old Man died.       He
   found him in his room.       He died, and for days no one even noticed
   he was gone...

   Rory takes a swig.





   149    EXT. CEMETERY. AFTERNOON.

   A beautiful Spring day.                    Rory, dressed in a dark
   suit,

   CUT TO:

   149


   overcoat, and sunglasses watches as the coffin is lowered into the
   grave, and a priest offers absolution.


   Rory and an old lady with a flowered scarf wrapped around her head are
   the only mourners.


   Rory takes a folded sheet of paper from his breast pocket. He opens it
   and stares at it; it is the letter from Celia.

   He bends down and places it onto the coffin.

   149    CONTINUED:            149

   Rory begins to walk away, the Priest still giving prayers, and, as we
   pull back, we watch Rory disappear among the rows and rows of anonymous
   white tombstones.


   150    INT. CLAY'S OFFICE. NIGHT.

   CUT BACK TO:

                                                                       150


   Clay leans against his desk as Daniella stares at him.

                                    CLAY

   166             That's it.                That's the end.

   She is visibly shocked.

                                    CLAY

   No moral.     No comeuppance.           No incredible knowledge gained
   other than to believe, that even after a terrible mistake, you can
   continue to live, and perhaps even live well.

   She pours herself her own drink.

                                  DANIELLA

   Bullshit and you know it. Everyone has to sleep at night.


   Clay takes a big sip of wine without saying
   anything.                       He smiles.



   166



                                  DANIELLA

   What really happens to him, Clay, after he's told himself all of that?
   What happens?


                                    CLAY

   I just told you...

                                  DANIELLA

   No, what really happens to...(BEAT) Rory? Tell me the truth.

                                    CLAY

   I told you already...He goes on. He lives. He writes...as well as he
   can. He's a big success.

                                  DANIELLA

   What does that mean? You're just...avoiding...guilt.

   He glares at her.


                                    CLAY

   Why don't you tell me?




                                                                     What?

   DANIELLA


   CLAY


   You're so smart, you got in here, got me talking, acting so precocious,
   throwing your ass around, quoting Shakespeare and batting your
   eyelashes, but I want to know what you think. Tell me what happens
   after all this.

                                  DANIELLA

   I...

                                    CLAY

   No, tell me what happens or get the Hell out of here!


   She stares at him, shakes her head, goes to the door. Without turning
   around.

                                  DANIELLA

   He's fucked.

   Clay gives her a golf clap as she turns around.

                                    CLAY

   Go on.

                                  DANIELLA

   Maybe he is able to forget.     And maybe he can really write, create,
   but it doesn't matter because he'll never, ever believe it.     He
   robbed himself of the chance to find out.




   Not bad...

   CLAY


   DANIELLA


   Or maybe he can't write, although he's able to fool a few people.

   He lifts his glass drunkenly.

                                    CLAY

   Even better.

                                  DANIELLA

   Maybe his marriage falls apart because for him and his wife to look at
   each other is to look at the truth. Maybe he can put on that confident,
   sophisticated mask in public, but late at night, no matter what he
   tells himself, he can't sleep because when he closes his eyes he still
   sees the face of that Old Man.


   Clay laughs.

                                    CLAY


   Or maybe it's his own face and the Old Man is just a story he made
   up...

   Clay looks at her, eyes full, then away.

                                    CLAY

   Or maybe he winds up in his beautiful apartment overlooking the park
   with a girl who's much too young for him, telling her what he knows are
   tired old stories because she, for some reason, believes he has
   something he can give her...

   He looks at her, then smiles.

   151  BEAT.

                                    CLAY

   You're very talented, Daniella.  But at some point you have to choose
   between fiction and life; they come close, but they never actually
   touch. They're two very, very different things


   She crosses to him and he looks at her.                      She
   finally kisses him long and hard.


   After a moment he pushes her away.                      He closes his
   eyes and breathes deep.

   BEAT.

   He opens them....













   151



                                    CLAY

   I'm sorry...I...

   Daniella looks at him.

                                  DANIELLA

   What?  What's wrong?

                                    CLAY

   I don't...

                                  DANIELLA

   You don't want me?

                                    CLAY

   No, no, no, no...

   She looks at him.

   151    CONTINUED:            151


                                  DANIELLA

   Look, it's not like you're corrupting anything here. I want this. I
   want you.

                                    CLAY

   I-I...I

                                  DANIELLA

   I want you, Clay.             I want you...


   She starts to kiss him.                 He kisses her back, and they
   fall onto the couch going at it again.                 He finally
   breaks away from her.


                                    CLAY

   You should go.         Trust me.           You should go.

   She stares at him.


                                  DANIELLA

   Is that what you really want, Clay? What do you really want?

   She looks up at him.


   He stares at her intensely, wide eyed, unblinking as we slowly...

   FADE OUT.






   152    END.

   DANIELLA'S V.O.

   What do you want?



   152
